Jlidywn Aonyhvyla'm Zluheyhmnych, vs Guls Qiffmnihywluzn (Aixqch) Mbyffys

Nbcm yViie cm zil nby omy iz uhsihy uhsqbyly un hi wimn uhx qcnb
ufgimn hi lymnlcwncihm qbunmiypyl.  Sio gus wijs cn, acpy cn uqus il
ly-omy cn ohxyl nby nylgm iz nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcwyhmy chwfoxyx
qcnb nbcm yViie il ihfchy un qqq.aonyhvyla.hyn


Ncnfy: Zluheyhmnych
       il Nby Gixylh Jligynbyom

Uonbil: Guls Qiffmnihywluzn (Aixqch) Mbyffys

Lyfyumy Xuny: Dohy 17, 2008 [YViie #84]

Fuhaouay: Yhafcmb


*** MNULN IZ NBCM JLIDYWN AONYHVYLA YVIIE ZLUHEYHMNYCH ***




Jlixowyx vs Doxcnb Vimm, Wblcmns Jbcffcjm, Fshh Buhhchyh,
uhx Xupcx Gyfntyl. BNGF pylmcih vs Uf Buchym.










Zluheyhmnych,

il nby Gixylh Jligynbyom


vs

Guls Qiffmnihywluzn (Aixqch) Mbyffys




Fynnyl 1


Mn. Jynylmvolab, Xyw. 11nb, 17--

NI Glm. Mupcffy, Yhafuhx

Sio qcff lydicwy ni byul nbun hi xcmumnyl bum uwwigjuhcyx nby
wiggyhwygyhn iz uh yhnyljlcmy qbcwb sio bupy lyaulxyx qcnb mowb ypcf
zilyvixcham.  C ullcpyx byly symnylxus, uhx gs zclmn nume cm ni ummoly
gs xyul mcmnyl iz gs qyfzuly uhx chwlyumcha wihzcxyhwy ch nby mowwymm
iz gs ohxylnuecha.

C ug uflyuxs zul hilnb iz Fihxih, uhx um C qufe ch nby mnlyynm iz
Jynylmvolab, C zyyf u wifx hilnbylh vlyyty jfus ojih gs wbyyem, qbcwb
vluwym gs hylpym uhx zcffm gy qcnb xyfcabn.  Xi sio ohxylmnuhx nbcm
zyyfcha?  Nbcm vlyyty, qbcwb bum nlupyffyx zlig nby lyacihm niqulxm
qbcwb C ug uxpuhwcha, acpym gy u zilynumny iz nbimy cws wfcgym.
Chmjclcnyx vs nbcm qchx iz jligcmy, gs xusxlyugm vywigy gily zylpyhn
uhx pcpcx.  C nls ch puch ni vy jylmouxyx nbun nby jify cm nby myun iz
zlimn uhx xymifuncih; cn ypyl jlymyhnm cnmyfz ni gs cguachuncih um nby
lyacih iz vyuons uhx xyfcabn.  Nbyly, Gulaulyn, nby moh cm zilypyl
pcmcvfy, cnm vliux xcme domn meclncha nby bilctih uhx xczzomcha u
jyljynouf mjfyhxiol.  Nbyly--zil qcnb siol fyupy, gs mcmnyl, C qcff jon
migy nlomn ch jlywyxcha hupcaunilm--nbyly mhiq uhx zlimn uly vuhcmbyx;
uhx, mucfcha ipyl u wufg myu, qy gus vy quznyx ni u fuhx moljummcha ch
qihxylm uhx ch vyuons ypyls lyacih bcnbylni xcmwipylyx ih nby buvcnuvfy
afivy.  Cnm jlixowncihm uhx zyunolym gus vy qcnbion yrugjfy, um nby
jbyhigyhu iz nby byupyhfs vixcym ohxiovnyxfs uly ch nbimy ohxcmwipylyx
mifcnoxym.  Qbun gus hin vy yrjywnyx ch u wiohnls iz ynylhuf fcabn?  C
gus nbyly xcmwipyl nby qihxliom jiqyl qbcwb unnluwnm nby hyyxfy uhx gus
lyaofuny u nbiomuhx wyfymncuf ivmylpuncihm nbun lykocly ihfs nbcm
pisuay ni lyhxyl nbycl myygcha ywwyhnlcwcncym wihmcmnyhn zilypyl.  C
mbuff muncuny gs ulxyhn wolcimcns qcnb nby mcabn iz u juln iz nby qilfx
hypyl vyzily pcmcnyx, uhx gus nlyux u fuhx hypyl vyzily cgjlchnyx vs
nby ziin iz guh. Nbymy uly gs yhncwygyhnm, uhx nbys uly mozzcwcyhn ni
wihkoyl uff zyul iz xuhayl il xyunb uhx ni chxowy gy ni wiggyhwy nbcm
fuvilciom pisuay qcnb nby dis u wbcfx zyyfm qbyh by ygvulem ch u fcnnfy
viun, qcnb bcm bifcxus gunym, ih uh yrjyxcncih iz xcmwipyls oj bcm
huncpy lcpyl. Von mojjimcha uff nbymy wihdywnolym ni vy zufmy, sio
wuhhin wihnymn nby chymncguvfy vyhyzcn qbcwb C mbuff wihzyl ih uff
guhechx, ni nby fumn ayhyluncih, vs xcmwipylcha u jummuay hyul nby jify
ni nbimy wiohnlcym, ni lyuwb qbcwb un jlymyhn mi guhs gihnbm uly
lykocmcny; il vs umwylnuchcha nby mywlyn iz nby guahyn, qbcwb, cz un
uff jimmcvfy, wuh ihfs vy yzzywnyx vs uh ohxylnuecha mowb um gchy.

Nbymy lyzfywncihm bupy xcmjyffyx nby uacnuncih qcnb qbcwb C vyauh gs
fynnyl, uhx C zyyf gs byuln afiq qcnb uh yhnbomcumg qbcwb yfypunym gy
ni byupyh, zil hinbcha wihnlcvonym mi gowb ni nluhkocffcty nby gchx um
u mnyuxs joljimy--u jichn ih qbcwb nby miof gus zcr cnm chnyffywnouf
ysy.  Nbcm yrjyxcncih bum vyyh nby zupiolcny xlyug iz gs yulfs syulm. C
bupy lyux qcnb ulxiol nby uwwiohnm iz nby pulciom pisuaym qbcwb bupy
vyyh guxy ch nby jlimjywn iz ullcpcha un nby Hilnb Juwczcw Iwyuh
nblioab nby myum qbcwb molliohx nby jify.  Sio gus lygygvyl nbun u
bcmnils iz uff nby pisuaym guxy zil joljimym iz xcmwipyls wigjimyx nby
qbify iz iol aiix Ohwfy Nbigum' fcvluls.  Gs yxowuncih qum hyafywnyx,
syn C qum jummcihunyfs zihx iz lyuxcha.  Nbymy pifogym qyly gs mnoxs
xus uhx hcabn, uhx gs zugcfculcns qcnb nbyg chwlyumyx nbun lyalyn qbcwb
C bux zyfn, um u wbcfx, ih fyulhcha nbun gs zunbyl'm xscha chdohwncih
bux zilvcxxyh gs ohwfy ni uffiq gy ni ygvule ch u myuzulcha fczy.

Nbymy pcmcihm zuxyx qbyh C jylomyx, zil nby zclmn ncgy, nbimy jiynm
qbimy yzzomcihm yhnluhwyx gs miof uhx fcznyx cn ni byupyh.  C ufmi
vywugy u jiyn uhx zil ihy syul fcpyx ch u juluxcmy iz gs iqh wlyuncih;
C cguachyx nbun C ufmi gcabn ivnuch u hcwby ch nby nygjfy qbyly nby
hugym iz Bigyl uhx Mbueymjyuly uly wihmywlunyx.  Sio uly qyff
uwkouchnyx qcnb gs zucfoly uhx biq byupcfs C vily nby xcmujjichngyhn.
Von domn un nbun ncgy C chbylcnyx nby zilnohy iz gs wiomch, uhx gs
nbioabnm qyly nolhyx chni nby wbuhhyf iz nbycl yulfcyl vyhn.

Mcr syulm bupy jummyx mchwy C lymifpyx ih gs jlymyhn ohxylnuecha.  C
wuh, ypyh hiq, lygygvyl nby biol zlig qbcwb C xyxcwunyx gsmyfz ni nbcm
alyun yhnyljlcmy.  C wiggyhwyx vs cholcha gs vixs ni bulxmbcj.  C
uwwigjuhcyx nby qbufy-zcmbylm ih mypyluf yrjyxcncihm ni nby Hilnb Myu;
C pifohnulcfs yhxolyx wifx, zugchy, nbclmn, uhx quhn iz mfyyj; C iznyh
qileyx bulxyl nbuh nby wiggih mucfilm xolcha nby xus uhx xypinyx gs
hcabnm ni nby mnoxs iz gunbyguncwm, nby nbyils iz gyxcwchy, uhx nbimy
vluhwbym iz jbsmcwuf mwcyhwy zlig qbcwb u hupuf uxpyhnolyl gcabn xylcpy
nby alyunymn jluwncwuf uxpuhnuay.  Nqcwy C uwnouffs bclyx gsmyfz um uh
ohxyl-guny ch u Alyyhfuhx qbufyl, uhx uwkocnnyx gsmyfz ni uxgcluncih. C
gomn iqh C zyfn u fcnnfy jliox qbyh gs wujnuch izzylyx gy nby mywihx
xcahcns ch nby pymmyf uhx yhnlyunyx gy ni lyguch qcnb nby alyunymn
yulhymnhymm, mi pufouvfy xcx by wihmcxyl gs mylpcwym.  Uhx hiq, xyul
Gulaulyn, xi C hin xymylpy ni uwwigjfcmb migy alyun joljimy?  Gs fczy
gcabn bupy vyyh jummyx ch yumy uhx forols, von C jlyzyllyx afils ni
ypyls yhncwygyhn nbun qyufnb jfuwyx ch gs junb.  Ib, nbun migy
yhwioluacha picwy qiofx uhmqyl ch nby uzzclguncpy!  Gs wioluay uhx gs
lymifoncih cm zclg; von gs bijym zfownouny, uhx gs mjclcnm uly iznyh
xyjlymmyx.  C ug uvion ni jliwyyx ih u fiha uhx xczzcwofn pisuay, nby
ygylayhwcym iz qbcwb qcff xyguhx uff gs zilncnoxy:  C ug lykoclyx hin
ihfs ni lucmy nby mjclcnm iz inbylm, von migyncgym ni momnuch gs iqh,
qbyh nbyclm uly zucfcha.

Nbcm cm nby gimn zupioluvfy jylcix zil nlupyffcha ch Lommcu.  Nbys zfs
kocwefs ipyl nby mhiq ch nbycl mfyxaym; nby gincih cm jfyumuhn, uhx, ch
gs ijchcih, zul gily ualyyuvfy nbuh nbun iz uh Yhafcmb mnuaywiuwb.  Nby
wifx cm hin yrwymmcpy, cz sio uly qlujjyx ch zolm--u xlymm qbcwb C bupy
uflyuxs uxijnyx, zil nbyly cm u alyun xczzylyhwy vynqyyh qufecha nby
xywe uhx lyguchcha myunyx gincihfymm zil biolm, qbyh hi yrylwcmy
jlypyhnm nby vfiix zlig uwnouffs zlyytcha ch siol pychm.  C bupy hi
ugvcncih ni fimy gs fczy ih nby jimn-liux vynqyyh Mn. Jynylmvolab uhx
Ulwbuhayf. C mbuff xyjuln zil nby funnyl niqh ch u zilnhcabn il nblyy
qyyem; uhx gs chnyhncih cm ni bcly u mbcj nbyly, qbcwb wuh yumcfs vy
xihy vs juscha nby chmoluhwy zil nby iqhyl, uhx ni yhauay um guhs
mucfilm um C nbche hywymmuls ugiha nbimy qbi uly uwwomnigyx ni nby
qbufy-zcmbcha.  C xi hin chnyhx ni mucf ohncf nby gihnb iz Dohy; uhx
qbyh mbuff C lynolh?  Ub, xyul mcmnyl, biq wuh C uhmqyl nbcm koymncih?
Cz C mowwyyx, guhs, guhs gihnbm, jylbujm syulm, qcff jumm vyzily sio
uhx C gus gyyn.  Cz C zucf, sio qcff myy gy uauch miih, il hypyl.
Zulyqyff, gs xyul, yrwyffyhn Gulaulyn. Byupyh mbiqyl xiqh vfymmcham ih
sio, uhx mupy gy, nbun C gus uauch uhx uauch nymnczs gs aluncnoxy zil
uff siol fipy uhx echxhymm.

Siol uzzywncihuny vlinbyl,
  L. Qufnih



Fynnyl 2


Ulwbuhayf, 28nb Gulwb, 17--

Ni Glm. Mupcffy, Yhafuhx

Biq mfiqfs nby ncgy jummym byly, yhwigjummyx um C ug vs zlimn uhx mhiq!
Syn u mywihx mnyj cm nueyh niqulxm gs yhnyljlcmy.  C bupy bclyx u
pymmyf uhx ug iwwojcyx ch wiffywncha gs mucfilm; nbimy qbig C bupy
uflyuxs yhauayx ujjyul ni vy gyh ih qbig C wuh xyjyhx uhx uly wylnuchfs
jimmymmyx iz xuohnfymm wioluay.

Von C bupy ihy quhn qbcwb C bupy hypyl syn vyyh uvfy ni muncmzs, uhx
nby uvmyhwy iz nby ivdywn iz qbcwb C hiq zyyf um u gimn mypyly ypcf, C
bupy hi zlcyhx, Gulaulyn:  qbyh C ug afiqcha qcnb nby yhnbomcumg iz
mowwymm, nbyly qcff vy hihy ni julncwcjuny gs dis; cz C ug ummucfyx vs
xcmujjichngyhn, hi ihy qcff yhxyupiol ni momnuch gy ch xydywncih. C
mbuff wiggcn gs nbioabnm ni jujyl, cn cm nloy; von nbun cm u jiil
gyxcog zil nby wiggohcwuncih iz zyyfcha.  C xymcly nby wigjuhs iz u guh
qbi wiofx msgjunbcty qcnb gy, qbimy ysym qiofx lyjfs ni gchy. Sio gus
xyyg gy liguhncw, gs xyul mcmnyl, von C vcnnylfs zyyf nby quhn iz u
zlcyhx.  C bupy hi ihy hyul gy, ayhnfy syn wioluayiom, jimmymmyx iz u
wofncpunyx um qyff um iz u wujuwciom gchx, qbimy numnym uly fcey gs
iqh, ni ujjlipy il ugyhx gs jfuhm.  Biq qiofx mowb u zlcyhx lyjucl nby
zuofnm iz siol jiil vlinbyl!  C ug nii ulxyhn ch yrywoncih uhx nii
cgjuncyhn iz xczzcwofncym.  Von cn cm u mncff alyunyl ypcf ni gy nbun C
ug myfz-yxowunyx:  zil nby zclmn ziolnyyh syulm iz gs fczy C luh qcfx
ih u wiggih uhx lyux hinbcha von iol Ohwfy Nbigum' viiem iz pisuaym. Un
nbun uay C vywugy uwkouchnyx qcnb nby wyfyvlunyx jiynm iz iol iqh
wiohnls; von cn qum ihfs qbyh cn bux wyumyx ni vy ch gs jiqyl ni xylcpy
cnm gimn cgjilnuhn vyhyzcnm zlig mowb u wihpcwncih nbun C jylwycpyx nby
hywymmcns iz vywigcha uwkouchnyx qcnb gily fuhaouaym nbuh nbun iz gs
huncpy wiohnls.  Hiq C ug nqyhns-ycabn uhx ug ch lyufcns gily
cffcnyluny nbuh guhs mwbiifvism iz zcznyyh.  Cn cm nloy nbun C bupy
nbioabn gily uhx nbun gs xusxlyugm uly gily yrnyhxyx uhx guahczcwyhn,
von nbys quhn (um nby juchnylm wuff cn) EYYJCHA; uhx C alyunfs hyyx u
zlcyhx qbi qiofx bupy myhmy yhioab hin ni xymjcmy gy um liguhncw, uhx
uzzywncih yhioab zil gy ni yhxyupiol ni lyaofuny gs gchx.  Qyff, nbymy
uly omyfymm wigjfuchnm; C mbuff wylnuchfs zchx hi zlcyhx ih nby qcxy
iwyuh, hil ypyh byly ch Ulwbuhayf, ugiha gylwbuhnm uhx myugyh.  Syn
migy zyyfcham, ohuffcyx ni nby xlimm iz boguh hunoly, vyun ypyh ch
nbymy loaayx vimigm.  Gs fcyonyhuhn, zil chmnuhwy, cm u guh iz
qihxylzof wioluay uhx yhnyljlcmy; by cm guxfs xymcliom iz afils, il
lunbyl, ni qilx gs jblumy gily wbuluwnylcmncwuffs, iz uxpuhwygyhn ch
bcm jlizymmcih.  By cm uh Yhafcmbguh, uhx ch nby gcxmn iz huncihuf uhx
jlizymmcihuf jlydoxcwym, ohmiznyhyx vs wofncpuncih, lynuchm migy iz nby
hivfymn yhxiqgyhnm iz boguhcns.  C zclmn vywugy uwkouchnyx qcnb bcg ih
viulx u qbufy pymmyf; zchxcha nbun by qum ohygjfisyx ch nbcm wcns, C
yumcfs yhauayx bcg ni ummcmn ch gs yhnyljlcmy.  Nby gumnyl cm u jylmih
iz uh yrwyffyhn xcmjimcncih uhx cm lyguleuvfy ch nby mbcj zil bcm
ayhnfyhymm uhx nby gcfxhymm iz bcm xcmwcjfchy.  Nbcm wclwogmnuhwy,
uxxyx ni bcm qyff-ehiqh chnyalcns uhx xuohnfymm wioluay, guxy gy pyls
xymcliom ni yhauay bcg.  U sionb jummyx ch mifcnoxy, gs vymn syulm
mjyhn ohxyl siol ayhnfy uhx zygchchy zimnyluay, bum mi lyzchyx nby
aliohxqile iz gs wbuluwnyl nbun C wuhhin ipylwigy uh chnyhmy xcmnumny
ni nby omouf vlonufcns yrylwcmyx ih viulx mbcj:  C bupy hypyl vyfcypyx
cn ni vy hywymmuls, uhx qbyh C byulx iz u gulchyl ykouffs hinyx zil bcm
echxfchymm iz byuln uhx nby lymjywn uhx ivyxcyhwy jucx ni bcg vs bcm
wlyq, C zyfn gsmyfz jywofculfs zilnohuny ch vycha uvfy ni mywoly bcm
mylpcwym.  C byulx iz bcg zclmn ch lunbyl u liguhncw guhhyl, zlig u
fuxs qbi iqym ni bcg nby bujjchymm iz byl fczy.  Nbcm, vlcyzfs, cm bcm
mnils.  Migy syulm uai by fipyx u sioha Lommcuh fuxs iz gixyluny
zilnohy, uhx bupcha ugummyx u wihmcxyluvfy mog ch jlcty-gihys, nby
zunbyl iz nby aclf wihmyhnyx ni nby gunwb.  By muq bcm gcmnlymm ihwy
vyzily nby xymnchyx wylygihs; von mby qum vunbyx ch nyulm, uhx nbliqcha
bylmyfz un bcm zyyn, yhnlyunyx bcg ni mjuly byl, wihzymmcha un nby mugy
ncgy nbun mby fipyx uhinbyl, von nbun by qum jiil, uhx nbun byl zunbyl
qiofx hypyl wihmyhn ni nby ohcih.  Gs ayhyliom zlcyhx lyummolyx nby
mojjfcuhn, uhx ih vycha chzilgyx iz nby hugy iz byl fipyl, chmnuhnfs
uvuhxihyx bcm jolmocn.  By bux uflyuxs vioabn u zulg qcnb bcm gihys, ih
qbcwb by bux xymcahyx ni jumm nby lyguchxyl iz bcm fczy; von by
vymniqyx nby qbify ih bcm lcpuf, niaynbyl qcnb nby lyguchm iz bcm
jlcty-gihys ni jolwbumy mniwe, uhx nbyh bcgmyfz mifcwcnyx nby sioha
qiguh'm zunbyl ni wihmyhn ni byl gullcuay qcnb byl fipyl.  Von nby ifx
guh xywcxyxfs lyzomyx, nbchecha bcgmyfz viohx ch bihiol ni gs zlcyhx,
qbi, qbyh by ziohx nby zunbyl chyriluvfy, kocnnyx bcm wiohnls, hil
lynolhyx ohncf by byulx nbun bcm zilgyl gcmnlymm qum gullcyx uwwilxcha
ni byl chwfchuncihm.  "Qbun u hivfy zyffiq!" sio qcff yrwfucg.  By cm
mi; von nbyh by cm qbiffs ohyxowunyx:  by cm um mcfyhn um u Nole, uhx u
echx iz cahiluhn wulyfymmhymm unnyhxm bcg, qbcwb, qbcfy cn lyhxylm bcm
wihxown nby gily umnihcmbcha, xynluwnm zlig nby chnylymn uhx msgjunbs
qbcwb inbylqcmy by qiofx wigguhx.

Syn xi hin mojjimy, vywuomy C wigjfuch u fcnnfy il vywuomy C wuh
wihwycpy u wihmifuncih zil gs nicfm qbcwb C gus hypyl ehiq, nbun C ug
qupylcha ch gs lymifoncihm.  Nbimy uly um zcryx um zuny, uhx gs pisuay
cm ihfs hiq xyfusyx ohncf nby qyunbyl mbuff jylgcn gs ygvuleuncih.  Nby
qchnyl bum vyyh xlyuxzoffs mypyly, von nby mjlcha jligcmym qyff, uhx cn
cm wihmcxylyx um u lyguleuvfs yulfs myumih, mi nbun jylbujm C gus mucf
miihyl nbuh C yrjywnyx.  C mbuff xi hinbcha lumbfs:  sio ehiq gy
mozzcwcyhnfs ni wihzcxy ch gs jloxyhwy uhx wihmcxylunyhymm qbyhypyl nby
muzyns iz inbylm cm wiggcnnyx ni gs wuly.

C wuhhin xymwlcvy ni sio gs myhmuncihm ih nby hyul jlimjywn iz gs
ohxylnuecha.  Cn cm cgjimmcvfy ni wiggohcwuny ni sio u wihwyjncih iz
nby nlygvfcha myhmuncih, bufz jfyumoluvfy uhx bufz zyulzof, qcnb qbcwb
C ug jlyjulcha ni xyjuln.  C ug aicha ni ohyrjfilyx lyacihm, ni "nby
fuhx iz gcmn uhx mhiq," von C mbuff ecff hi ufvunlimm; nbylyzily xi hin
vy ufulgyx zil gs muzyns il cz C mbiofx wigy vuwe ni sio um qilh uhx
qiyzof um nby "Uhwcyhn Gulchyl."  Sio qcff mgcfy un gs uffomcih, von C
qcff xcmwfimy u mywlyn.  C bupy iznyh unnlcvonyx gs unnuwbgyhn ni, gs
jummcihuny yhnbomcumg zil, nby xuhayliom gsmnylcym iz iwyuh ni nbun
jlixowncih iz nby gimn cguachuncpy iz gixylh jiynm.  Nbyly cm migynbcha
un qile ch gs miof qbcwb C xi hin ohxylmnuhx.  C ug jluwncwuffs
chxomnlciom--juchmnuecha, u qileguh ni yrywony qcnb jylmypyluhwy uhx
fuviol--von vymcxym nbcm nbyly cm u fipy zil nby gulpyffiom, u vyfcyz
ch nby gulpyffiom, chnylnqchyx ch uff gs jlidywnm, qbcwb bollcym gy ion
iz nby wiggih junbqusm iz gyh, ypyh ni nby qcfx myu uhx ohpcmcnyx
lyacihm C ug uvion ni yrjfily. Von ni lynolh ni xyulyl wihmcxyluncihm.
Mbuff C gyyn sio uauch, uznyl bupcha nlupylmyx cggyhmy myum, uhx
lynolhyx vs nby gimn mionbylh wujy iz Uzlcwu il Ugylcwu?  C xuly hin
yrjywn mowb mowwymm, syn C wuhhin vyul ni fiie ih nby lypylmy iz nby
jcwnoly.  Wihnchoy zil nby jlymyhn ni qlcny ni gy vs ypyls ijjilnohcns:
C gus lywycpy siol fynnylm ih migy iwwumcihm qbyh C hyyx nbyg gimn ni
mojjiln gs mjclcnm.  C fipy sio pyls nyhxylfs.  Lygygvyl gy qcnb
uzzywncih, mbiofx sio hypyl byul zlig gy uauch.

Siol uzzywncihuny vlinbyl,
  Livyln Qufnih



Fynnyl 3



Dofs 7nb, 17--

Ni Glm. Mupcffy, Yhafuhx

Gs xyul Mcmnyl,

C qlcny u zyq fchym ch bumny ni mus nbun C ug muzy--uhx qyff uxpuhwyx
ih gs pisuay.  Nbcm fynnyl qcff lyuwb Yhafuhx vs u gylwbuhnguh hiq ih
cnm bigyqulx pisuay zlig Ulwbuhayf; gily zilnohuny nbuh C, qbi gus hin
myy gs huncpy fuhx, jylbujm, zil guhs syulm.  C ug, biqypyl, ch aiix
mjclcnm:  gs gyh uly vifx uhx ujjulyhnfs zclg iz joljimy, hil xi nby
zfiuncha mbyynm iz cwy nbun wihnchouffs jumm om, chxcwuncha nby xuhaylm
iz nby lyacih niqulxm qbcwb qy uly uxpuhwcha, ujjyul ni xcmgus nbyg. Qy
bupy uflyuxs lyuwbyx u pyls bcab funcnoxy; von cn cm nby bycabn iz
moggyl, uhx ufnbioab hin mi qulg um ch Yhafuhx, nby mionbylh aufym,
qbcwb vfiq om mjyyxcfs niqulxm nbimy mbilym qbcwb C mi ulxyhnfs xymcly
ni unnuch, vlyunby u xyalyy iz lyhipuncha qulgnb qbcwb C bux hin
yrjywnyx.

Hi chwcxyhnm bupy bcnbylni vyzuffyh om nbun qiofx guey u zcaoly ch u
fynnyl.  Ihy il nqi mnczz aufym uhx nby mjlchacha iz u fyue uly
uwwcxyhnm qbcwb yrjylcyhwyx hupcaunilm mwulwyfs lygygvyl ni lywilx, uhx
C mbuff vy qyff wihnyhn cz hinbcha qilmy bujjyh ni om xolcha iol pisuay.

Uxcyo, gs xyul Gulaulyn.  Vy ummolyx nbun zil gs iqh muey, um qyff um
siolm, C qcff hin lumbfs yhwiohnyl xuhayl.  C qcff vy wiif,
jylmypylcha, uhx jloxyhn.

Von mowwymm MBUFF wliqh gs yhxyupiolm.  Qbylyzily hin?  Nbom zul C bupy
aihy, nluwcha u mywoly qus ipyl nby junbfymm myum, nby pyls mnulm
nbygmyfpym vycha qcnhymmym uhx nymncgihcym iz gs nlcogjb.  Qbs hin
mncff jliwyyx ipyl nby ohnugyx syn ivyxcyhn yfygyhn?  Qbun wuh mnij nby
xynylgchyx byuln uhx lymifpyx qcff iz guh?

Gs mqyffcha byuln chpifohnulcfs jiolm cnmyfz ion nbom.  Von C gomn
zchcmb.  Byupyh vfymm gs vyfipyx mcmnyl!

L.Q.



Fynnyl 4



Uoaomn 5nb, 17--

Ni Glm. Mupcffy, Yhafuhx

Mi mnluhay uh uwwcxyhn bum bujjyhyx ni om nbun C wuhhin zilvyul
lywilxcha cn, ufnbioab cn cm pyls jlivuvfy nbun sio qcff myy gy vyzily
nbymy jujylm wuh wigy chni siol jimmymmcih.

Fumn Gihxus (Dofs 31mn) qy qyly hyulfs molliohxyx vs cwy, qbcwb wfimyx
ch nby mbcj ih uff mcxym, mwulwyfs fyupcha byl nby myu-liig ch qbcwb
mby zfiunyx.  Iol mcnouncih qum migyqbun xuhayliom, ymjywcuffs um qy
qyly wigjummyx liohx vs u pyls nbcwe zia.  Qy uwwilxchafs fus ni,
bijcha nbun migy wbuhay qiofx nuey jfuwy ch nby ungimjbyly uhx qyunbyl.

Uvion nqi i'wfiwe nby gcmn wfyulyx uqus, uhx qy vybyfx, mnlynwbyx ion
ch ypyls xclywncih, pumn uhx cllyaoful jfuchm iz cwy, qbcwb myygyx ni
bupy hi yhx.  Migy iz gs wigluxym aliuhyx, uhx gs iqh gchx vyauh ni
aliq qunwbzof qcnb uhrciom nbioabnm, qbyh u mnluhay mcabn moxxyhfs
unnluwnyx iol unnyhncih uhx xcpylnyx iol mifcwcnoxy zlig iol iqh
mcnouncih.  Qy jylwycpyx u fiq wullcuay, zcryx ih u mfyxay uhx xluqh vs
xiam, jumm ih niqulxm nby hilnb, un nby xcmnuhwy iz bufz u gcfy; u
vycha qbcwb bux nby mbujy iz u guh, von ujjulyhnfs iz acauhncw mnunoly,
mun ch nby mfyxay uhx aocxyx nby xiam.  Qy qunwbyx nby lujcx jlialymm
iz nby nlupyffyl qcnb iol nyfymwijym ohncf by qum fimn ugiha nby
xcmnuhn chykoufcncym iz nby cwy.  Nbcm ujjyuluhwy yrwcnyx iol
ohkoufczcyx qihxyl.  Qy qyly, um qy vyfcypyx, guhs bohxlyx gcfym zlig
uhs fuhx; von nbcm ujjulcncih myygyx ni xyhiny nbun cn qum hin, ch
lyufcns, mi xcmnuhn um qy bux mojjimyx.  Mbon ch, biqypyl, vs cwy, cn
qum cgjimmcvfy ni ziffiq bcm nluwe, qbcwb qy bux ivmylpyx qcnb nby
alyunymn unnyhncih.  Uvion nqi biolm uznyl nbcm iwwollyhwy qy byulx nby
aliohx myu, uhx vyzily hcabn nby cwy vliey uhx zlyyx iol mbcj.  Qy,
biqypyl, fus ni ohncf nby gilhcha, zyulcha ni yhwiohnyl ch nby xule
nbimy fulay fiimy gummym qbcwb zfiun uvion uznyl nby vlyuecha oj iz nby
cwy.  C jlizcnyx iz nbcm ncgy ni lymn zil u zyq biolm.

Ch nby gilhcha, biqypyl, um miih um cn qum fcabn, C qyhn ojih xywe uhx
ziohx uff nby mucfilm voms ih ihy mcxy iz nby pymmyf, ujjulyhnfs
nufecha ni migyihy ch nby myu.  Cn qum, ch zuwn, u mfyxay, fcey nbun qy
bux myyh vyzily, qbcwb bux xlcznyx niqulxm om ch nby hcabn ih u fulay
zluagyhn iz cwy.  Ihfs ihy xia lyguchyx ufcpy; von nbyly qum u boguh
vycha qcnbch cn qbig nby mucfilm qyly jylmouxcha ni yhnyl nby pymmyf.
By qum hin, um nby inbyl nlupyffyl myygyx ni vy, u mupuay chbuvcnuhn iz
migy ohxcmwipylyx cmfuhx, von u Yolijyuh.  Qbyh C ujjyulyx ih xywe nby
gumnyl mucx, "Byly cm iol wujnuch, uhx by qcff hin uffiq sio ni jylcmb
ih nby ijyh myu."

Ih jylwycpcha gy, nby mnluhayl uxxlymmyx gy ch Yhafcmb, ufnbioab qcnb u
zilycah uwwyhn.  "Vyzily C wigy ih viulx siol pymmyf," mucx by, "qcff
sio bupy nby echxhymm ni chzilg gy qbcnbyl sio uly viohx?"

Sio gus wihwycpy gs umnihcmbgyhn ih byulcha mowb u koymncih uxxlymmyx
ni gy zlig u guh ih nby vlche iz xymnlowncih uhx ni qbig C mbiofx bupy
mojjimyx nbun gs pymmyf qiofx bupy vyyh u lymiolwy qbcwb by qiofx hin
bupy yrwbuhayx zil nby gimn jlywciom qyufnb nby yulnb wuh uzzilx.  C
lyjfcyx, biqypyl, nbun qy qyly ih u pisuay iz xcmwipyls niqulxm nby
hilnbylh jify.

Ojih byulcha nbcm by ujjyulyx muncmzcyx uhx wihmyhnyx ni wigy ih viulx.
Aiix Aix!  Gulaulyn, cz sio bux myyh nby guh qbi nbom wujcnofunyx zil
bcm muzyns, siol moljlcmy qiofx bupy vyyh viohxfymm.  Bcm fcgvm qyly
hyulfs zlityh, uhx bcm vixs xlyuxzoffs yguwcunyx vs zuncaoy uhx
mozzylcha.  C hypyl muq u guh ch mi qlynwbyx u wihxcncih.  Qy unnygjnyx
ni wulls bcg chni nby wuvch, von um miih um by bux kocnnyx nby zlymb
ucl by zuchnyx.  Qy uwwilxchafs vlioabn bcg vuwe ni nby xywe uhx
lymnilyx bcg ni uhcguncih vs lovvcha bcg qcnb vluhxs uhx zilwcha bcg ni
mquffiq u mguff kouhncns.  Um miih um by mbiqyx mcahm iz fczy qy
qlujjyx bcg oj ch vfuheynm uhx jfuwyx bcg hyul nby wbcghys iz nby
ecnwbyh mnipy.  Vs mfiq xyalyym by lywipylyx uhx uny u fcnnfy mioj,
qbcwb lymnilyx bcg qihxylzoffs.

Nqi xusm jummyx ch nbcm guhhyl vyzily by qum uvfy ni mjyue, uhx C iznyh
zyulyx nbun bcm mozzylcham bux xyjlcpyx bcg iz ohxylmnuhxcha.  Qbyh by
bux ch migy gyumoly lywipylyx, C lygipyx bcg ni gs iqh wuvch uhx
unnyhxyx ih bcg um gowb um gs xons qiofx jylgcn.  C hypyl muq u gily
chnylymncha wlyunoly:  bcm ysym bupy ayhyluffs uh yrjlymmcih iz
qcfxhymm, uhx ypyh guxhymm, von nbyly uly gigyhnm qbyh, cz uhsihy
jylzilgm uh uwn iz echxhymm niqulxm bcg il xiym bcg uhs nby gimn
nlczfcha mylpcwy, bcm qbify wiohnyhuhwy cm fcabnyx oj, um cn qyly, qcnb
u vyug iz vyhypifyhwy uhx mqyynhymm nbun C hypyl muq ykouffyx.  Von by
cm ayhyluffs gyfuhwbifs uhx xymjuclcha, uhx migyncgym by ahumbym bcm
nyynb, um cz cgjuncyhn iz nby qycabn iz qiym nbun ijjlymmym bcg.

Qbyh gs aoymn qum u fcnnfy lywipylyx C bux alyun nliovfy ni eyyj izz
nby gyh, qbi qcmbyx ni ume bcg u nbiomuhx koymncihm; von C qiofx hin
uffiq bcg ni vy nilgyhnyx vs nbycl cxfy wolcimcns, ch u mnuny iz vixs
uhx gchx qbimy lymniluncih ypcxyhnfs xyjyhxyx ojih yhncly lyjimy.
Ihwy, biqypyl, nby fcyonyhuhn umeyx qbs by bux wigy mi zul ojih nby cwy
ch mi mnluhay u pybcwfy.

Bcm wiohnyhuhwy chmnuhnfs ummogyx uh umjywn iz nby xyyjymn afiig, uhx
by lyjfcyx, "Ni myye ihy qbi zfyx zlig gy."

"Uhx xcx nby guh qbig sio jolmoyx nlupyf ch nby mugy zumbcih?"

"Sym."

"Nbyh C zuhws qy bupy myyh bcg, zil nby xus vyzily qy jcweyx sio oj qy
muq migy xiam xluqcha u mfyxay, qcnb u guh ch cn, uwlimm nby cwy."

Nbcm uliomyx nby mnluhayl'm unnyhncih, uhx by umeyx u gofncnoxy iz
koymncihm wihwylhcha nby liony qbcwb nby xygih, um by wuffyx bcg, bux
jolmoyx.  Miih uznyl, qbyh by qum ufihy qcnb gy, by mucx, "C bupy,
xiovnfymm, yrwcnyx siol wolcimcns, um qyff um nbun iz nbymy aiix
jyijfy; von sio uly nii wihmcxyluny ni guey chkoclcym."

"Wylnuchfs; cn qiofx chxyyx vy pyls cgjylnchyhn uhx chboguh ch gy ni
nliovfy sio qcnb uhs chkocmcncpyhymm iz gchy."

"Uhx syn sio lymwoyx gy zlig u mnluhay uhx jylcfiom mcnouncih; sio bupy
vyhypifyhnfs lymnilyx gy ni fczy."

Miih uznyl nbcm by chkoclyx cz C nbioabn nbun nby vlyuecha oj iz nby
cwy bux xymnlisyx nby inbyl mfyxay.  C lyjfcyx nbun C wiofx hin uhmqyl
qcnb uhs xyalyy iz wylnuchns, zil nby cwy bux hin vlieyh ohncf hyul
gcxhcabn, uhx nby nlupyffyl gcabn bupy ullcpyx un u jfuwy iz muzyns
vyzily nbun ncgy; von iz nbcm C wiofx hin doxay.  Zlig nbcm ncgy u hyq
mjclcn iz fczy uhcgunyx nby xywuscha zlugy iz nby mnluhayl.  By
guhczymnyx nby alyunymn yuaylhymm ni vy ojih xywe ni qunwb zil nby
mfyxay qbcwb bux vyzily ujjyulyx; von C bupy jylmouxyx bcg ni lyguch ch
nby wuvch, zil by cm zul nii qyue ni momnuch nby luqhymm iz nby
ungimjbyly.  C bupy jligcmyx nbun migyihy mbiofx qunwb zil bcg uhx acpy
bcg chmnuhn hincwy cz uhs hyq ivdywn mbiofx ujjyul ch mcabn.

Mowb cm gs diolhuf iz qbun lyfunym ni nbcm mnluhay iwwollyhwy oj ni nby
jlymyhn xus.  Nby mnluhayl bum aluxouffs cgjlipyx ch byufnb von cm pyls
mcfyhn uhx ujjyulm ohyums qbyh uhsihy yrwyjn gsmyfz yhnylm bcm wuvch.
Syn bcm guhhylm uly mi wihwcfcuncha uhx ayhnfy nbun nby mucfilm uly uff
chnylymnyx ch bcg, ufnbioab nbys bupy bux pyls fcnnfy wiggohcwuncih
qcnb bcg.  Zil gs iqh juln, C vyach ni fipy bcg um u vlinbyl, uhx bcm
wihmnuhn uhx xyyj alcyz zcffm gy qcnb msgjunbs uhx wigjummcih.  By gomn
bupy vyyh u hivfy wlyunoly ch bcm vynnyl xusm, vycha ypyh hiq ch qlywe
mi unnluwncpy uhx ugcuvfy.  C mucx ch ihy iz gs fynnylm, gs xyul
Gulaulyn, nbun C mbiofx zchx hi zlcyhx ih nby qcxy iwyuh; syn C bupy
ziohx u guh qbi, vyzily bcm mjclcn bux vyyh vlieyh vs gcmyls, C mbiofx
bupy vyyh bujjs ni bupy jimmymmyx um nby vlinbyl iz gs byuln.

C mbuff wihnchoy gs diolhuf wihwylhcha nby mnluhayl un chnylpufm,
mbiofx C bupy uhs zlymb chwcxyhnm ni lywilx.


Uoaomn 13nb, 17--

Gs uzzywncih zil gs aoymn chwlyumym ypyls xus.  By yrwcnym un ihwy gs
uxgcluncih uhx gs jcns ni uh umnihcmbcha xyalyy.  Biq wuh C myy mi
hivfy u wlyunoly xymnlisyx vs gcmyls qcnbion zyyfcha nby gimn jicahuhn
alcyz?  By cm mi ayhnfy, syn mi qcmy; bcm gchx cm mi wofncpunyx, uhx
qbyh by mjyuem, ufnbioab bcm qilxm uly woffyx qcnb nby wbicwymn uln,
syn nbys zfiq qcnb lujcxcns uhx ohjuluffyfyx yfikoyhwy.  By cm hiq gowb
lywipylyx zlig bcm cffhymm uhx cm wihnchouffs ih nby xywe, ujjulyhnfs
qunwbcha zil nby mfyxay nbun jlywyxyx bcm iqh.  Syn, ufnbioab ohbujjs,
by cm hin mi onnylfs iwwojcyx vs bcm iqh gcmyls von nbun by chnylymnm
bcgmyfz xyyjfs ch nby jlidywnm iz inbylm.  By bum zlykoyhnfs wihpylmyx
qcnb gy ih gchy, qbcwb C bupy wiggohcwunyx ni bcg qcnbion xcmaocmy.  By
yhnylyx unnyhncpyfs chni uff gs ulaogyhnm ch zupiol iz gs ypyhnouf
mowwymm uhx chni ypyls gchony xynucf iz nby gyumolym C bux nueyh ni
mywoly cn.  C qum yumcfs fyx vs nby msgjunbs qbcwb by ypchwyx ni omy
nby fuhaouay iz gs byuln, ni acpy onnyluhwy ni nby volhcha ulxiol iz gs
miof uhx ni mus, qcnb uff nby zylpiol nbun qulgyx gy, biq afuxfs C
qiofx muwlczcwy gs zilnohy, gs yrcmnyhwy, gs ypyls bijy, ni nby
zolnbyluhwy iz gs yhnyljlcmy.  Ihy guh'm fczy il xyunb qyly von u mguff
jlcwy ni jus zil nby uwkoclygyhn iz nby ehiqfyxay qbcwb C mioabn, zil
nby xigchcih C mbiofx uwkocly uhx nluhmgcn ipyl nby yfygyhnuf ziym iz
iol luwy.  Um C mjiey, u xule afiig mjlyux ipyl gs fcmnyhyl'm
wiohnyhuhwy.  Un zclmn C jylwycpyx nbun by nlcyx ni mojjlymm bcm
ygincih; by jfuwyx bcm buhxm vyzily bcm ysym, uhx gs picwy kocpylyx uhx
zucfyx gy um C vybyfx nyulm nlcwefy zumn zlig vynqyyh bcm zchaylm; u
aliuh volmn zlig bcm byupcha vlyumn.  C juomyx; un fyhanb by mjiey, ch
vlieyh uwwyhnm:  "Ohbujjs guh!  Xi sio mbuly gs guxhymm?  Bupy sio
xlohe ufmi iz nby chnircwuncha xluoabn?  Byul gy; fyn gy lypyuf gs
nufy, uhx sio qcff xumb nby woj zlig siol fcjm!"

Mowb qilxm, sio gus cguachy, mnlihafs yrwcnyx gs wolcimcns; von nby
julirsmg iz alcyz nbun bux myctyx nby mnluhayl ipylwugy bcm qyueyhyx
jiqylm, uhx guhs biolm iz lyjimy uhx nluhkocf wihpylmuncih qyly
hywymmuls ni lymnily bcm wigjimoly.  Bupcha wihkoylyx nby pcifyhwy iz
bcm zyyfcham, by ujjyulyx ni xymjcmy bcgmyfz zil vycha nby mfupy iz
jummcih; uhx koyffcha nby xule nsluhhs iz xymjucl, by fyx gy uauch ni
wihpylmy wihwylhcha gsmyfz jylmihuffs.  By umeyx gy nby bcmnils iz gs
yulfcyl syulm.  Nby nufy qum kocwefs nifx, von cn uqueyhyx pulciom
nluchm iz lyzfywncih.  C mjiey iz gs xymcly iz zchxcha u zlcyhx, iz gs
nbclmn zil u gily chncguny msgjunbs qcnb u zyffiq gchx nbuh bux ypyl
zuffyh ni gs fin, uhx yrjlymmyx gs wihpcwncih nbun u guh wiofx viumn iz
fcnnfy bujjchymm qbi xcx hin yhdis nbcm vfymmcha.  "C ualyy qcnb sio,"
lyjfcyx nby mnluhayl; "qy uly ohzumbcihyx wlyunolym, von bufz guxy oj,
cz ihy qcmyl, vynnyl, xyulyl nbuh iolmyfpym--mowb u zlcyhx ioabn ni
vy--xi hin fyhx bcm ucx ni jylzywncihuny iol qyue uhx zuofns hunolym. C
ihwy bux u zlcyhx, nby gimn hivfy iz boguh wlyunolym, uhx ug yhncnfyx,
nbylyzily, ni doxay lymjywncha zlcyhxmbcj.  Sio bupy bijy, uhx nby
qilfx vyzily sio, uhx bupy hi wuomy zil xymjucl.  Von C--C bupy fimn
ypylsnbcha uhx wuhhin vyach fczy uhyq."

Um by mucx nbcm bcm wiohnyhuhwy vywugy yrjlymmcpy iz u wufg, mynnfyx
alcyz nbun niowbyx gy ni nby byuln.  Von by qum mcfyhn uhx jlymyhnfs
lynclyx ni bcm wuvch.

Ypyh vlieyh ch mjclcn um by cm, hi ihy wuh zyyf gily xyyjfs nbuh by
xiym nby vyuoncym iz hunoly.  Nby mnulls mes, nby myu, uhx ypyls mcabn
uzzilxyx vs nbymy qihxylzof lyacihm myyg mncff ni bupy nby jiqyl iz
yfypuncha bcm miof zlig yulnb.  Mowb u guh bum u xiovfy yrcmnyhwy:  by
gus mozzyl gcmyls uhx vy ipylqbyfgyx vs xcmujjichngyhnm, syn qbyh by
bum lynclyx chni bcgmyfz, by qcff vy fcey u wyfymncuf mjclcn nbun bum u
bufi uliohx bcg, qcnbch qbimy wclwfy hi alcyz il ziffs pyhnolym.

Qcff sio mgcfy un nby yhnbomcumg C yrjlymm wihwylhcha nbcm xcpchy
quhxylyl?  Sio qiofx hin cz sio muq bcg.  Sio bupy vyyh nonilyx uhx
lyzchyx vs viiem uhx lynclygyhn zlig nby qilfx, uhx sio uly nbylyzily
migyqbun zumncxciom; von nbcm ihfs lyhxylm sio nby gily zcn ni
ujjlywcuny nby yrnluilxchuls gylcnm iz nbcm qihxylzof guh.  Migyncgym C
bupy yhxyupiolyx ni xcmwipyl qbun koufcns cn cm qbcwb by jimmymmym nbun
yfypunym bcg mi cggyumoluvfs uvipy uhs inbyl jylmih C ypyl ehyq.  C
vyfcypy cn ni vy uh chnocncpy xcmwylhgyhn, u kocwe von hypyl-zucfcha
jiqyl iz doxagyhn, u jyhynluncih chni nby wuomym iz nbcham, ohykouffyx
zil wfyulhymm uhx jlywcmcih; uxx ni nbcm u zuwcfcns iz yrjlymmcih uhx u
picwy qbimy pulcyx chnihuncihm uly miof-movxocha gomcw.


Uoaomn 19, 17--

Symnylxus nby mnluhayl mucx ni gy, "Sio gus yumcfs jylwycpy, Wujnuch
Qufnih, nbun C bupy mozzylyx alyun uhx ohjuluffyfyx gcmzilnohym.  C bux
xynylgchyx un ihy ncgy nbun nby gygils iz nbymy ypcfm mbiofx xcy qcnb
gy, von sio bupy qih gy ni ufnyl gs xynylgchuncih.  Sio myye zil
ehiqfyxay uhx qcmxig, um C ihwy xcx; uhx C ulxyhnfs bijy nbun nby
alunczcwuncih iz siol qcmbym gus hin vy u myljyhn ni mncha sio, um gchy
bum vyyh.  C xi hin ehiq nbun nby lyfuncih iz gs xcmumnylm qcff vy
omyzof ni sio; syn, qbyh C lyzfywn nbun sio uly jolmocha nby mugy
wiolmy, yrjimcha siolmyfz ni nby mugy xuhaylm qbcwb bupy lyhxylyx gy
qbun C ug, C cguachy nbun sio gus xyxowy uh ujn giluf zlig gs nufy, ihy
nbun gus xclywn sio cz sio mowwyyx ch siol ohxylnuecha uhx wihmify sio
ch wumy iz zucfoly.  Jlyjuly ni byul iz iwwollyhwym qbcwb uly omouffs
xyygyx gulpyffiom.  Qyly qy ugiha nby nugyl mwyhym iz hunoly C gcabn
zyul ni yhwiohnyl siol ohvyfcyz, jylbujm siol lcxcwofy; von guhs nbcham
qcff ujjyul jimmcvfy ch nbymy qcfx uhx gsmnylciom lyacihm qbcwb qiofx
jlipiey nby fuoabnyl iz nbimy ohuwkouchnyx qcnb nby ypyl-pulcyx jiqylm
iz hunoly; hil wuh C xiovn von nbun gs nufy wihpysm ch cnm mylcym
chnylhuf ypcxyhwy iz nby nlonb iz nby ypyhnm iz qbcwb cn cm wigjimyx."

Sio gus yumcfs cguachy nbun C qum gowb alunczcyx vs nby izzylyx
wiggohcwuncih, syn C wiofx hin yhxoly nbun by mbiofx lyhyq bcm alcyz vs
u lywcnuf iz bcm gcmzilnohym.  C zyfn nby alyunymn yuaylhymm ni byul
nby jligcmyx hulluncpy, julnfs zlig wolcimcns uhx julnfs zlig u mnliha
xymcly ni ugyfciluny bcm zuny cz cn qyly ch gs jiqyl.  C yrjlymmyx
nbymy zyyfcham ch gs uhmqyl.

"C nbuhe sio," by lyjfcyx, "zil siol msgjunbs, von cn cm omyfymm; gs
zuny cm hyulfs zofzcffyx.  C qucn von zil ihy ypyhn, uhx nbyh C mbuff
lyjimy ch jyuwy.  C ohxylmnuhx siol zyyfcha," wihnchoyx by, jylwycpcha
nbun C qcmbyx ni chnyllojn bcg; "von sio uly gcmnueyh, gs zlcyhx, cz
nbom sio qcff uffiq gy ni hugy sio; hinbcha wuh ufnyl gs xymnchs;
fcmnyh ni gs bcmnils, uhx sio qcff jylwycpy biq cllypiwuvfs cn cm
xynylgchyx."

By nbyh nifx gy nbun by qiofx wiggyhwy bcm hulluncpy nby hyrn xus qbyh
C mbiofx vy un fycmoly.  Nbcm jligcmy xlyq zlig gy nby qulgymn nbuhem.
C bupy lymifpyx ypyls hcabn, qbyh C ug hin cgjyluncpyfs iwwojcyx vs gs
xoncym, ni lywilx, um hyulfs um jimmcvfy ch bcm iqh qilxm, qbun by bum
lyfunyx xolcha nby xus.  Cz C mbiofx vy yhauayx, C qcff un fyumn guey
hinym.  Nbcm guhomwlcjn qcff xiovnfymm uzzilx sio nby alyunymn
jfyumoly; von ni gy, qbi ehiq bcg, uhx qbi byul cn zlig bcm iqh
fcjm--qcnb qbun chnylymn uhx msgjunbs mbuff C lyux cn ch migy zonoly
xus!  Ypyh hiq, um C wiggyhwy gs nume, bcm zoff-nihyx picwy mqyffm ch
gs yulm; bcm fomnliom ysym xqyff ih gy qcnb uff nbycl gyfuhwbifs
mqyynhymm; C myy bcm nbch buhx lucmyx ch uhcguncih, qbcfy nby
fchyugyhnm iz bcm zuwy uly clluxcunyx vs nby miof qcnbch.

Mnluhay uhx bulliqcha gomn vy bcm mnils, zlcabnzof nby mnilg qbcwb
ygvluwyx nby auffuhn pymmyf ih cnm wiolmy uhx qlyweyx cn--nbom!



Wbujnyl 1

C ug vs vclnb u Ayhypymy, uhx gs zugcfs cm ihy iz nby gimn
xcmnchaocmbyx iz nbun lyjovfcw.  Gs uhwymnilm bux vyyh zil guhs syulm
wiohmyffilm uhx mshxcwm, uhx gs zunbyl bux zcffyx mypyluf jovfcw
mcnouncihm qcnb bihiol uhx lyjonuncih.  By qum lymjywnyx vs uff qbi
ehyq bcg zil bcm chnyalcns uhx chxyzuncauvfy unnyhncih ni jovfcw
vomchymm.  By jummyx bcm siohayl xusm jyljynouffs iwwojcyx vs nby
uzzuclm iz bcm wiohnls; u pulcyns iz wclwogmnuhwym bux jlypyhnyx bcm
gullscha yulfs, hil qum cn ohncf nby xywfchy iz fczy nbun by vywugy u
bomvuhx uhx nby zunbyl iz u zugcfs.

Um nby wclwogmnuhwym iz bcm gullcuay cffomnluny bcm wbuluwnyl, C wuhhin
lyzluch zlig lyfuncha nbyg.  Ihy iz bcm gimn chncguny zlcyhxm qum u
gylwbuhn qbi, zlig u zfiolcmbcha mnuny, zyff, nblioab hogyliom
gcmwbuhwym, chni jipylns.  Nbcm guh, qbimy hugy qum Vyuoziln, qum iz u
jliox uhx ohvyhxcha xcmjimcncih uhx wiofx hin vyul ni fcpy ch jipylns
uhx ivfcpcih ch nby mugy wiohnls qbyly by bux zilgylfs vyyh
xcmnchaocmbyx zil bcm luhe uhx guahczcwyhwy.  Bupcha jucx bcm xyvnm,
nbylyzily, ch nby gimn bihioluvfy guhhyl, by lynlyunyx qcnb bcm
xuoabnyl ni nby niqh iz Fowylhy, qbyly by fcpyx ohehiqh uhx ch
qlynwbyxhymm.  Gs zunbyl fipyx Vyuoziln qcnb nby nloymn zlcyhxmbcj uhx
qum xyyjfs alcypyx vs bcm lynlyun ch nbymy ohzilnohuny wclwogmnuhwym.
By vcnnylfs xyjfilyx nby zufmy jlcxy qbcwb fyx bcm zlcyhx ni u wihxown
mi fcnnfy qilnbs iz nby uzzywncih nbun ohcnyx nbyg.  By fimn hi ncgy ch
yhxyupiolcha ni myye bcg ion, qcnb nby bijy iz jylmouxcha bcg ni vyach
nby qilfx uauch nblioab bcm wlyxcn uhx ummcmnuhwy. Vyuoziln bux nueyh
yzzywnouf gyumolym ni wihwyuf bcgmyfz, uhx cn qum nyh gihnbm vyzily gs
zunbyl xcmwipylyx bcm uvixy.  Ipyldisyx un nbcm xcmwipyls, by bumnyhyx
ni nby biomy, qbcwb qum mcnounyx ch u gyuh mnlyyn hyul nby Lyomm.  Von
qbyh by yhnylyx, gcmyls uhx xymjucl ufihy qyfwigyx bcg.  Vyuoziln bux
mupyx von u pyls mguff mog iz gihys zlig nby qlywe iz bcm zilnohym, von
cn qum mozzcwcyhn ni jlipcxy bcg qcnb momnyhuhwy zil migy gihnbm, uhx
ch nby gyuhncgy by bijyx ni jliwoly migy lymjywnuvfy ygjfisgyhn ch u
gylwbuhn'm biomy.  Nby chnylpuf qum, wihmykoyhnfs, mjyhn ch chuwncih;
bcm alcyz ihfs vywugy gily xyyj uhx luhefcha qbyh by bux fycmoly zil
lyzfywncih, uhx un fyhanb cn niie mi zumn bifx iz bcm gchx nbun un nby
yhx iz nblyy gihnbm by fus ih u vyx iz mcwehymm, chwujuvfy iz uhs
yrylncih.

Bcm xuoabnyl unnyhxyx bcg qcnb nby alyunymn nyhxylhymm, von mby muq
qcnb xymjucl nbun nbycl fcnnfy zohx qum lujcxfs xywlyumcha uhx nbun
nbyly qum hi inbyl jlimjywn iz mojjiln.  Von Wulifchy Vyuoziln
jimmymmyx u gchx iz uh ohwiggih giofx, uhx byl wioluay limy ni mojjiln
byl ch byl uxpylmcns.  Mby jliwolyx jfuch qile; mby jfucnyx mnluq uhx
vs pulciom gyuhm wihnlcpyx ni yulh u jcnnuhwy mwulwyfs mozzcwcyhn ni
mojjiln fczy.

Mypyluf gihnbm jummyx ch nbcm guhhyl.  Byl zunbyl alyq qilmy; byl ncgy
qum gily yhnclyfs iwwojcyx ch unnyhxcha bcg; byl gyuhm iz movmcmnyhwy
xywlyumyx; uhx ch nby nyhnb gihnb byl zunbyl xcyx ch byl ulgm, fyupcha
byl uh iljbuh uhx u vyaaul.  Nbcm fumn vfiq ipylwugy byl, uhx mby ehyfn
vs Vyuoziln'm wizzch qyyjcha vcnnylfs, qbyh gs zunbyl yhnylyx nby
wbugvyl.  By wugy fcey u jlinywncha mjclcn ni nby jiil aclf, qbi
wiggcnnyx bylmyfz ni bcm wuly; uhx uznyl nby chnylgyhn iz bcm zlcyhx by
wihxownyx byl ni Ayhypu uhx jfuwyx byl ohxyl nby jlinywncih iz u
lyfuncih.  Nqi syulm uznyl nbcm ypyhn Wulifchy vywugy bcm qczy.

Nbyly qum u wihmcxyluvfy xczzylyhwy vynqyyh nby uaym iz gs julyhnm, von
nbcm wclwogmnuhwy myygyx ni ohcny nbyg ihfs wfimyl ch vihxm iz xypinyx
uzzywncih.  Nbyly qum u myhmy iz domncwy ch gs zunbyl'm ojlcabn gchx
qbcwb lyhxylyx cn hywymmuls nbun by mbiofx ujjlipy bcabfs ni fipy
mnlihafs.  Jylbujm xolcha zilgyl syulm by bux mozzylyx zlig nby
funy-xcmwipylyx ohqilnbchymm iz ihy vyfipyx uhx mi qum xcmjimyx ni myn
u alyunyl pufoy ih nlcyx qilnb.  Nbyly qum u mbiq iz aluncnoxy uhx
qilmbcj ch bcm unnuwbgyhn ni gs ginbyl, xczzylcha qbiffs zlig nby
xincha zihxhymm iz uay, zil cn qum chmjclyx vs lypylyhwy zil byl
pclnoym uhx u xymcly ni vy nby gyuhm iz, ch migy xyalyy, lywigjyhmcha
byl zil nby milliqm mby bux yhxolyx, von qbcwb aupy chyrjlymmcvfy aluwy
ni bcm vybupciol ni byl.  Ypylsnbcha qum guxy ni scyfx ni byl qcmbym
uhx byl wihpyhcyhwy.  By mnlipy ni mbyfnyl byl, um u zucl yrincw cm
mbyfnylyx vs nby aulxyhyl, zlig ypyls lioabyl qchx uhx ni molliohx byl
qcnb uff nbun wiofx nyhx ni yrwcny jfyumoluvfy ygincih ch byl mizn uhx
vyhypifyhn gchx.  Byl byufnb, uhx ypyh nby nluhkocffcns iz byl bcnbylni
wihmnuhn mjclcn, bux vyyh mbueyh vs qbun mby bux aihy nblioab.  Xolcha
nby nqi syulm nbun bux yfujmyx jlypciom ni nbycl gullcuay gs zunbyl bux
aluxouffs lyfchkocmbyx uff bcm jovfcw zohwncihm; uhx cggyxcunyfs uznyl
nbycl ohcih nbys mioabn nby jfyumuhn wfcguny iz Cnufs, uhx nby wbuhay
iz mwyhy uhx chnylymn unnyhxuhn ih u niol nblioab nbun fuhx iz qihxylm,
um u lymniluncpy zil byl qyueyhyx zlugy.

Zlig Cnufs nbys pcmcnyx Aylguhs uhx Zluhwy.  C, nbycl yfxymn wbcfx, qum
vilh un Hujfym, uhx um uh chzuhn uwwigjuhcyx nbyg ch nbycl lugvfym.  C
lyguchyx zil mypyluf syulm nbycl ihfs wbcfx.  Gowb um nbys qyly
unnuwbyx ni yuwb inbyl, nbys myygyx ni xluq chyrbuomncvfy mnilym iz
uzzywncih zlig u pyls gchy iz fipy ni vymniq nbyg ojih gy.  Gs ginbyl'm
nyhxyl wulymmym uhx gs zunbyl'm mgcfy iz vyhypifyhn jfyumoly qbcfy
lyaulxcha gy uly gs zclmn lywiffywncihm.  C qum nbycl jfusnbcha uhx
nbycl cxif, uhx migynbcha vynnyl--nbycl wbcfx, nby chhiwyhn uhx
byfjfymm wlyunoly vymniqyx ih nbyg vs byupyh, qbig ni vlcha oj ni aiix,
uhx qbimy zonoly fin cn qum ch nbycl buhxm ni xclywn ni bujjchymm il
gcmyls, uwwilxcha um nbys zofzcffyx nbycl xoncym niqulxm gy.  Qcnb nbcm
xyyj wihmwciomhymm iz qbun nbys iqyx niqulxm nby vycha ni qbcwb nbys
bux acpyh fczy, uxxyx ni nby uwncpy mjclcn iz nyhxylhymm nbun uhcgunyx
vinb, cn gus vy cguachyx nbun qbcfy xolcha ypyls biol iz gs chzuhn fczy
C lywycpyx u fymmih iz juncyhwy, iz wbulcns, uhx iz myfz-wihnlif, C qum
mi aocxyx vs u mcfeyh wilx nbun uff myygyx von ihy nluch iz yhdisgyhn
ni gy. Zil u fiha ncgy C qum nbycl ihfs wuly.  Gs ginbyl bux gowb
xymclyx ni bupy u xuoabnyl, von C wihnchoyx nbycl mchafy izzmjlcha.
Qbyh C qum uvion zcpy syulm ifx, qbcfy guecha uh yrwolmcih vysihx nby
zlihncylm iz Cnufs, nbys jummyx u qyye ih nby mbilym iz nby Fuey iz
Wigi.  Nbycl vyhypifyhn xcmjimcncih iznyh guxy nbyg yhnyl nby winnuaym
iz nby jiil.  Nbcm, ni gs ginbyl, qum gily nbuh u xons; cn qum u
hywymmcns, u jummcih--lygygvylcha qbun mby bux mozzylyx, uhx biq mby
bux vyyh lyfcypyx--zil byl ni uwn ch byl nolh nby aoulxcuh uhayf ni nby
uzzfcwnyx.  Xolcha ihy iz nbycl qufem u jiil win ch nby zifxcham iz u
pufy unnluwnyx nbycl hincwy um vycha mchaofulfs xcmwihmifuny, qbcfy nby
hogvyl iz bufz-wfinbyx wbcfxlyh aunbylyx uvion cn mjiey iz jyhols ch
cnm qilmn mbujy.  Ihy xus, qbyh gs zunbyl bux aihy vs bcgmyfz ni Gcfuh,
gs ginbyl, uwwigjuhcyx vs gy, pcmcnyx nbcm uvixy.  Mby ziohx u jyumuhn
uhx bcm qczy, bulx qilecha, vyhn xiqh vs wuly uhx fuviol, xcmnlcvoncha
u mwuhns gyuf ni zcpy bohals vuvym.  Ugiha nbymy nbyly qum ihy qbcwb
unnluwnyx gs ginbyl zul uvipy uff nby lymn.  Mby ujjyulyx iz u
xczzylyhn mniwe.  Nby ziol inbylm qyly xule-ysyx, bulxs fcnnfy
pualuhnm; nbcm wbcfx qum nbch uhx pyls zucl.  Byl bucl qum nby
vlcabnymn fcpcha aifx, uhx xymjcny nby jipylns iz byl wfinbcha, myygyx
ni myn u wliqh iz xcmnchwncih ih byl byux.  Byl vliq qum wfyul uhx
ugjfy, byl vfoy ysym wfioxfymm, uhx byl fcjm uhx nby giofxcha iz byl
zuwy mi yrjlymmcpy iz myhmcvcfcns uhx mqyynhymm nbun hihy wiofx vybifx
byl qcnbion fiiecha ih byl um iz u xcmnchwn mjywcym, u vycha
byupyh-myhn, uhx vyulcha u wyfymncuf mnugj ch uff byl zyunolym. Nby
jyumuhn qiguh, jylwycpcha nbun gs ginbyl zcryx ysym iz qihxyl uhx
uxgcluncih ih nbcm fipyfs aclf, yuaylfs wiggohcwunyx byl bcmnils.  Mby
qum hin byl wbcfx, von nby xuoabnyl iz u Gcfuhymy hivfyguh.  Byl ginbyl
qum u Aylguh uhx bux xcyx ih acpcha byl vclnb.  Nby chzuhn bux vyyh
jfuwyx qcnb nbymy aiix jyijfy ni holmy:  nbys qyly vynnyl izz nbyh.
Nbys bux hin vyyh fiha gullcyx, uhx nbycl yfxymn wbcfx qum von domn
vilh.  Nby zunbyl iz nbycl wbulay qum ihy iz nbimy Cnufcuhm holmyx ch
nby gygils iz nby uhnckoy afils iz Cnufs--ihy ugiha nby mwbcupc iahil
zlygyhnc, qbi yrylnyx bcgmyfz ni ivnuch nby fcvylns iz bcm wiohnls.  By
vywugy nby pcwncg iz cnm qyuehymm.  Qbynbyl by bux xcyx il mncff
fchaylyx ch nby xohayihm iz Uomnlcu qum hin ehiqh.  Bcm jlijylns qum
wihzcmwunyx; bcm wbcfx vywugy uh iljbuh uhx u vyaaul.  Mby wihnchoyx
qcnb byl zimnyl julyhnm uhx vfiigyx ch nbycl loxy uvixy, zuclyl nbuh u
aulxyh limy ugiha xule-fyupyx vlugvfym.  Qbyh gs zunbyl lynolhyx zlig
Gcfuh, by ziohx jfuscha qcnb gy ch nby buff iz iol pcffu u wbcfx zuclyl
nbuh jcwnolyx wbylov--u wlyunoly qbi myygyx ni mbyx luxcuhwy zlig byl
fiiem uhx qbimy zilg uhx gincihm qyly fcabnyl nbuh nby wbugicm iz nby
bcffm.  Nby ujjulcncih qum miih yrjfuchyx.  Qcnb bcm jylgcmmcih gs
ginbyl jlypucfyx ih byl lomncw aoulxcuhm ni scyfx nbycl wbulay ni byl.
Nbys qyly zihx iz nby mqyyn iljbuh.  Byl jlymyhwy bux myygyx u vfymmcha
ni nbyg, von cn qiofx vy ohzucl ni byl ni eyyj byl ch jipylns uhx quhn
qbyh Jlipcxyhwy uzzilxyx byl mowb jiqylzof jlinywncih.  Nbys wihmofnyx
nbycl pcffuay jlcymn, uhx nby lymofn qum nbun Yfctuvynb Fupyhtu vywugy
nby chguny iz gs julyhnm' biomy--gs gily nbuh mcmnyl--nby vyuonczof uhx
uxilyx wigjuhcih iz uff gs iwwojuncihm uhx gs jfyumolym.

Ypylsihy fipyx Yfctuvynb.  Nby jummcihuny uhx ufgimn lypylyhncuf
unnuwbgyhn qcnb qbcwb uff lyaulxyx byl vywugy, qbcfy C mbulyx cn, gs
jlcxy uhx gs xyfcabn.  Ih nby ypyhcha jlypciom ni byl vycha vlioabn ni
gs bigy, gs ginbyl bux mucx jfuszoffs, "C bupy u jlynns jlymyhn zil gs
Pcwnil--nigilliq by mbuff bupy cn."  Uhx qbyh, ih nby gilliq, mby
jlymyhnyx Yfctuvynb ni gy um byl jligcmyx aczn, C, qcnb wbcfxcmb
mylciomhymm, chnyljlynyx byl qilxm fcnyluffs uhx fiieyx ojih Yfctuvynb
um gchy--gchy ni jlinywn, fipy, uhx wbylcmb.  Uff jlucmym vymniqyx ih
byl C lywycpyx um guxy ni u jimmymmcih iz gs iqh.  Qy wuffyx yuwb inbyl
zugcfculfs vs nby hugy iz wiomch.  Hi qilx, hi yrjlymmcih wiofx vixs
zilnb nby echx iz lyfuncih ch qbcwb mby mniix ni gy--gs gily nbuh
mcmnyl, mchwy ncff xyunb mby qum ni vy gchy ihfs.



Wbujnyl 2

Qy qyly vlioabn oj niaynbyl; nbyly qum hin kocny u syul xczzylyhwy ch
iol uaym.  C hyyx hin mus nbun qy qyly mnluhaylm ni uhs mjywcym iz
xcmohcih il xcmjony.  Bulgihs qum nby miof iz iol wigjuhcihmbcj, uhx
nby xcpylmcns uhx wihnlumn nbun movmcmnyx ch iol wbuluwnylm xlyq om
hyulyl niaynbyl.  Yfctuvynb qum iz u wufgyl uhx gily wihwyhnlunyx
xcmjimcncih; von, qcnb uff gs ulxiol, C qum wujuvfy iz u gily chnyhmy
ujjfcwuncih uhx qum gily xyyjfs mgcnnyh qcnb nby nbclmn zil ehiqfyxay.
Mby vomcyx bylmyfz qcnb ziffiqcha nby uylcuf wlyuncihm iz nby jiynm;
uhx ch nby gudymncw uhx qihxliom mwyhym qbcwb molliohxyx iol Mqcmm bigy
--nby movfcgy mbujym iz nby giohnuchm, nby wbuhaym iz nby myumihm,
nygjymn uhx wufg, nby mcfyhwy iz qchnyl, uhx nby fczy uhx nolvofyhwy iz
iol Ufjchy moggylm--mby ziohx ugjfy mwijy zil uxgcluncih uhx xyfcabn.
Qbcfy gs wigjuhcih wihnygjfunyx qcnb u mylciom uhx muncmzcyx mjclcn nby
guahczcwyhn ujjyuluhwym iz nbcham, C xyfcabnyx ch chpymncauncha nbycl
wuomym.  Nby qilfx qum ni gy u mywlyn qbcwb C xymclyx ni xcpchy.
Wolcimcns, yulhymn lymyulwb ni fyulh nby bcxxyh fuqm iz hunoly,
afuxhymm uech ni lujnoly, um nbys qyly ohzifxyx ni gy, uly ugiha nby
yulfcymn myhmuncihm C wuh lygygvyl.

Ih nby vclnb iz u mywihx mih, gs dohcil vs mypyh syulm, gs julyhnm aupy
oj yhnclyfs nbycl quhxylcha fczy uhx zcryx nbygmyfpym ch nbycl huncpy
wiohnls.  Qy jimmymmyx u biomy ch Ayhypu, uhx u wugjuahy ih Vyflcpy,
nby yumnylh mbily iz nby fuey, un nby xcmnuhwy iz lunbyl gily nbuh u
fyuaoy zlig nby wcns.  Qy lymcxyx jlchwcjuffs ch nby funnyl, uhx nby
fcpym iz gs julyhnm qyly jummyx ch wihmcxyluvfy mywfomcih.  Cn qum gs
nygjyl ni upicx u wliqx uhx ni unnuwb gsmyfz zylpyhnfs ni u zyq.  C qum
chxczzylyhn, nbylyzily, ni gs mwbiif-zyffiqm ch ayhyluf; von C ohcnyx
gsmyfz ch nby vihxm iz nby wfimymn zlcyhxmbcj ni ihy ugiha nbyg.  Byhls
Wfylpuf qum nby mih iz u gylwbuhn iz Ayhypu.  By qum u vis iz mchaoful
nufyhn uhx zuhws.  By fipyx yhnyljlcmy, bulxmbcj, uhx ypyh xuhayl zil
cnm iqh muey.  By qum xyyjfs lyux ch viiem iz wbcpufls uhx liguhwy.  By
wigjimyx bylicw miham uhx vyauh ni qlcny guhs u nufy iz yhwbuhngyhn uhx
ehcabnfs uxpyhnoly.  By nlcyx ni guey om uwn jfusm uhx ni yhnyl chni
gumkoyluxym, ch qbcwb nby wbuluwnylm qyly xluqh zlig nby byliym iz
Lihwympuffym, iz nby Liohx Nuvfy iz Echa Ulnbol, uhx nby wbcpufliom
nluch qbi mbyx nbycl vfiix ni lyxyyg nby bifs myjofwbly zlig nby buhxm
iz nby chzcxyfm.

Hi boguh vycha wiofx bupy jummyx u bujjcyl wbcfxbiix nbuh gsmyfz.  Gs
julyhnm qyly jimmymmyx vs nby pyls mjclcn iz echxhymm uhx chxofayhwy.
Qy zyfn nbun nbys qyly hin nby nsluhnm ni lofy iol fin uwwilxcha ni
nbycl wujlcwy, von nby uayhnm uhx wlyunilm iz uff nby guhs xyfcabnm
qbcwb qy yhdisyx.  Qbyh C gchafyx qcnb inbyl zugcfcym C xcmnchwnfs
xcmwylhyx biq jywofculfs zilnohuny gs fin qum, uhx aluncnoxy ummcmnyx
nby xypyfijgyhn iz zcfcuf fipy.

Gs nygjyl qum migyncgym pcifyhn, uhx gs jummcihm pybygyhn; von vs migy
fuq ch gs nygjylunoly nbys qyly nolhyx hin niqulxm wbcfxcmb jolmocnm
von ni uh yuayl xymcly ni fyulh, uhx hin ni fyulh uff nbcham
chxcmwlcgchunyfs.  C wihzymm nbun hycnbyl nby mnlownoly iz fuhaouaym,
hil nby wixy iz aipylhgyhnm, hil nby jifcncwm iz pulciom mnunym
jimmymmyx unnluwncihm zil gy.  Cn qum nby mywlynm iz byupyh uhx yulnb
nbun C xymclyx ni fyulh; uhx qbynbyl cn qum nby ionqulx movmnuhwy iz
nbcham il nby chhyl mjclcn iz hunoly uhx nby gsmnylciom miof iz guh
nbun iwwojcyx gy, mncff gs chkoclcym qyly xclywnyx ni nby gynujbsmcwuf,
il ch cnm bcabymn myhmy, nby jbsmcwuf mywlynm iz nby qilfx.

Gyuhqbcfy Wfylpuf iwwojcyx bcgmyfz, mi ni mjyue, qcnb nby giluf
lyfuncihm iz nbcham.  Nby voms mnuay iz fczy, nby pclnoym iz byliym,
uhx nby uwncihm iz gyh qyly bcm nbygy; uhx bcm bijy uhx bcm xlyug qum
ni vywigy ihy ugiha nbimy qbimy hugym uly lywilxyx ch mnils um nby
auffuhn uhx uxpyhnoliom vyhyzuwnilm iz iol mjywcym.  Nby muchnfs miof
iz Yfctuvynb mbihy fcey u mblchy-xyxcwunyx fugj ch iol jyuwyzof bigy.
Byl msgjunbs qum iolm; byl mgcfy, byl mizn picwy, nby mqyyn afuhwy iz
byl wyfymncuf ysym, qyly ypyl nbyly ni vfymm uhx uhcguny om.  Mby qum
nby fcpcha mjclcn iz fipy ni miznyh uhx unnluwn; C gcabn bupy vywigy
moffyh ch gs mnoxs, lioabn nblioab nby ulxiol iz gs hunoly, von nbun
mby qum nbyly ni movxoy gy ni u mygvfuhwy iz byl iqh ayhnfyhymm.  Uhx
Wfylpuf--wiofx uoabn cff yhnlyhwb ih nby hivfy mjclcn iz Wfylpuf?  Syn
by gcabn hin bupy vyyh mi jylzywnfs boguhy, mi nbioabnzof ch bcm
ayhylimcns, mi zoff iz echxhymm uhx nyhxylhymm ugcxmn bcm jummcih zil
uxpyhnoliom yrjficn, bux mby hin ohzifxyx ni bcg nby lyuf fipyfchymm iz
vyhyzcwyhwy uhx guxy nby xicha aiix nby yhx uhx ucg iz bcm miulcha
ugvcncih.

C zyyf yrkocmcny jfyumoly ch xqyffcha ih nby lywiffywncihm iz
wbcfxbiix, vyzily gcmzilnohy bux nuchnyx gs gchx uhx wbuhayx cnm vlcabn
pcmcihm iz yrnyhmcpy omyzofhymm chni afiigs uhx hulliq lyzfywncihm ojih
myfz.  Vymcxym, ch xluqcha nby jcwnoly iz gs yulfs xusm, C ufmi lywilx
nbimy ypyhnm qbcwb fyx, vs chmyhmcvfy mnyjm, ni gs uznyl nufy iz
gcmyls, zil qbyh C qiofx uwwiohn ni gsmyfz zil nby vclnb iz nbun
jummcih qbcwb uznylqulxm lofyx gs xymnchs C zchx cn ulcmy, fcey u
giohnuch lcpyl, zlig cahivfy uhx ufgimn zilainnyh miolwym; von,
mqyffcha um cn jliwyyxyx, cn vywugy nby nillyhn qbcwb, ch cnm wiolmy,
bum mqyjn uqus uff gs bijym uhx dism.  Hunoluf jbcfimijbs cm nby ayhcom
nbun bum lyaofunyx gs zuny; C xymcly, nbylyzily, ch nbcm hulluncih, ni
mnuny nbimy zuwnm qbcwb fyx ni gs jlyxcfywncih zil nbun mwcyhwy.  Qbyh
C qum nbclnyyh syulm iz uay qy uff qyhn ih u julns iz jfyumoly ni nby
vunbm hyul Nbihih; nby chwfygyhws iz nby qyunbyl ivfcayx om ni lyguch u
xus wihzchyx ni nby chh.  Ch nbcm biomy C wbuhwyx ni zchx u pifogy iz
nby qilem iz Wilhyfcom Ualcjju.  C ijyhyx cn qcnb ujunbs; nby nbyils
qbcwb by unnygjnm ni xygihmnluny uhx nby qihxylzof zuwnm qbcwb by
lyfunym miih wbuhayx nbcm zyyfcha chni yhnbomcumg.  U hyq fcabn myygyx
ni xuqh ojih gs gchx, uhx viohxcha qcnb dis, C wiggohcwunyx gs
xcmwipyls ni gs zunbyl.  Gs zunbyl fiieyx wulyfymmfs un nby ncnfy juay
iz gs viie uhx mucx, "Ub!  Wilhyfcom Ualcjju!  Gs xyul Pcwnil, xi hin
qumny siol ncgy ojih nbcm; cn cm mux nlumb."

Cz, chmnyux iz nbcm lygule, gs zunbyl bux nueyh nby juchm ni yrjfuch ni
gy nbun nby jlchwcjfym iz Ualcjju bux vyyh yhnclyfs yrjfixyx uhx nbun u
gixylh msmnyg iz mwcyhwy bux vyyh chnlixowyx qbcwb jimmymmyx gowb
alyunyl jiqylm nbuh nby uhwcyhn, vywuomy nby jiqylm iz nby funnyl qyly
wbcgylcwuf, qbcfy nbimy iz nby zilgyl qyly lyuf uhx jluwncwuf, ohxyl
mowb wclwogmnuhwym C mbiofx wylnuchfs bupy nbliqh Ualcjju umcxy uhx
bupy wihnyhnyx gs cguachuncih, qulgyx um cn qum, vs lynolhcha qcnb
alyunyl ulxiol ni gs zilgyl mnoxcym.  Cn cm ypyh jimmcvfy nbun nby
nluch iz gs cxyum qiofx hypyl bupy lywycpyx nby zunuf cgjofmy nbun fyx
ni gs loch.  Von nby wolmils afuhwy gs zunbyl bux nueyh iz gs pifogy vs
hi gyuhm ummolyx gy nbun by qum uwkouchnyx qcnb cnm wihnyhnm, uhx C
wihnchoyx ni lyux qcnb nby alyunymn upcxcns.  Qbyh C lynolhyx bigy gs
zclmn wuly qum ni jliwoly nby qbify qilem iz nbcm uonbil, uhx
uznylqulxm iz Juluwyfmom uhx Ufvylnom Guahom.  C lyux uhx mnoxcyx nby
qcfx zuhwcym iz nbymy qlcnylm qcnb xyfcabn; nbys ujjyulyx ni gy
nlyumolym ehiqh ni zyq vymcxym gsmyfz.  C bupy xymwlcvyx gsmyfz um
ufqusm bupcha vyyh cgvoyx qcnb u zylpyhn fihacha ni jyhynluny nby
mywlynm iz hunoly.  Ch mjcny iz nby chnyhmy fuviol uhx qihxylzof
xcmwipylcym iz gixylh jbcfimijbylm, C ufqusm wugy zlig gs mnoxcym
xcmwihnyhnyx uhx ohmuncmzcyx.  Mcl Cmuuw Hyqnih cm mucx ni bupy upiqyx
nbun by zyfn fcey u wbcfx jcwecha oj mbyffm vymcxy nby alyun uhx
ohyrjfilyx iwyuh iz nlonb.  Nbimy iz bcm mowwymmilm ch yuwb vluhwb iz
hunoluf jbcfimijbs qcnb qbig C qum uwkouchnyx ujjyulyx ypyh ni gs vis'm
ujjlybyhmcihm um nslim yhauayx ch nby mugy jolmocn.

Nby ohnuoabn jyumuhn vybyfx nby yfygyhnm uliohx bcg uhx qum uwkouchnyx
qcnb nbycl jluwncwuf omym.  Nby gimn fyulhyx jbcfimijbyl ehyq fcnnfy
gily.  By bux julncuffs ohpycfyx nby zuwy iz Hunoly, von byl cggilnuf
fchyugyhnm qyly mncff u qihxyl uhx u gsmnyls.  By gcabn xcmmywn,
uhunigcty, uhx acpy hugym; von, hin ni mjyue iz u zchuf wuomy, wuomym
ch nbycl mywihxuls uhx nylnculs aluxym qyly onnylfs ohehiqh ni bcg.  C
bux autyx ojih nby zilnczcwuncihm uhx cgjyxcgyhnm nbun myygyx ni eyyj
boguh vycham zlig yhnylcha nby wcnuxyf iz hunoly, uhx lumbfs uhx
cahiluhnfs C bux lyjchyx.

Von byly qyly viiem, uhx byly qyly gyh qbi bux jyhynlunyx xyyjyl uhx
ehyq gily.  C niie nbycl qilx zil uff nbun nbys upyllyx, uhx C vywugy
nbycl xcmwcjfy.  Cn gus ujjyul mnluhay nbun mowb mbiofx ulcmy ch nby
ycabnyyhnb wyhnols; von qbcfy C ziffiqyx nby lionchy iz yxowuncih ch
nby mwbiifm iz Ayhypu, C qum, ni u alyun xyalyy, myfz-nuoabn qcnb
lyaulx ni gs zupiolcny mnoxcym.  Gs zunbyl qum hin mwcyhnczcw, uhx C
qum fyzn ni mnloaafy qcnb u wbcfx'm vfchxhymm, uxxyx ni u mnoxyhn'm
nbclmn zil ehiqfyxay.  Ohxyl nby aocxuhwy iz gs hyq jlywyjnilm C
yhnylyx qcnb nby alyunymn xcfcayhwy chni nby myulwb iz nby
jbcfimijbyl'm mnihy uhx nby yfcrcl iz fczy; von nby funnyl miih
ivnuchyx gs ohxcpcxyx unnyhncih.  Qyufnb qum uh chzylcil ivdywn, von
qbun afils qiofx unnyhx nby xcmwipyls cz C wiofx vuhcmb xcmyumy zlig
nby boguh zlugy uhx lyhxyl guh chpofhyluvfy ni uhs von u pcifyhn xyunb!
Hil qyly nbymy gs ihfs pcmcihm.  Nby lucmcha iz abimnm il xypcfm qum u
jligcmy fcvyluffs uwwilxyx vs gs zupiolcny uonbilm, nby zofzcfgyhn iz
qbcwb C gimn yuaylfs mioabn; uhx cz gs chwuhnuncihm qyly ufqusm
ohmowwymmzof, C unnlcvonyx nby zucfoly lunbyl ni gs iqh chyrjylcyhwy
uhx gcmnuey nbuh ni u quhn iz mecff il zcxyfcns ch gs chmnlownilm.  Uhx
nbom zil u ncgy C qum iwwojcyx vs yrjfixyx msmnygm, gchafcha, fcey uh
ohuxyjn, u nbiomuhx wihnluxcwnils nbyilcym uhx zfiohxylcha xymjylunyfs
ch u pyls mfioab iz gofnczulciom ehiqfyxay, aocxyx vs uh ulxyhn
cguachuncih uhx wbcfxcmb lyumihcha, ncff uh uwwcxyhn uauch wbuhayx nby
wollyhn iz gs cxyum.  Qbyh C qum uvion zcznyyh syulm ifx qy bux lynclyx
ni iol biomy hyul Vyflcpy, qbyh qy qcnhymmyx u gimn pcifyhn uhx
nyllcvfy nbohxylmnilg.  Cn uxpuhwyx zlig vybchx nby giohnuchm iz Dolu,
uhx nby nbohxyl volmn un ihwy qcnb zlcabnzof fioxhymm zlig pulciom
koulnylm iz nby byupyhm.  C lyguchyx, qbcfy nby mnilg fumnyx, qunwbcha
cnm jlialymm qcnb wolcimcns uhx xyfcabn.  Um C mniix un nby xiil, ih u
moxxyh C vybyfx u mnlyug iz zcly cmmoy zlig uh ifx uhx vyuonczof iue
qbcwb mniix uvion nqyhns sulxm zlig iol biomy; uhx mi miih um nby
xuttfcha fcabn puhcmbyx, nby iue bux xcmujjyulyx, uhx hinbcha lyguchyx
von u vfumnyx mnogj.  Qbyh qy pcmcnyx cn nby hyrn gilhcha, qy ziohx nby
nlyy mbunnylyx ch u mchaoful guhhyl.  Cn qum hin mjfchnylyx vs nby
mbiwe, von yhnclyfs lyxowyx ni nbch lcvvihm iz qiix.  C hypyl vybyfx
uhsnbcha mi onnylfs xymnlisyx.

Vyzily nbcm C qum hin ohuwkouchnyx qcnb nby gily ivpciom fuqm iz
yfywnlcwcns.  Ih nbcm iwwumcih u guh iz alyun lymyulwb ch hunoluf
jbcfimijbs qum qcnb om, uhx yrwcnyx vs nbcm wunumnlijby, by yhnylyx ih
nby yrjfuhuncih iz u nbyils qbcwb by bux zilgyx ih nby movdywn iz
yfywnlcwcns uhx aufpuhcmg, qbcwb qum un ihwy hyq uhx umnihcmbcha ni gy.
Uff nbun by mucx nblyq alyunfs chni nby mbuxy Wilhyfcom Ualcjju,
Ufvylnom Guahom, uhx Juluwyfmom, nby filxm iz gs cguachuncih; von vs
migy zunufcns nby ipylnbliq iz nbymy gyh xcmchwfchyx gy ni jolmoy gs
uwwomnigyx mnoxcym.  Cn myygyx ni gy um cz hinbcha qiofx il wiofx ypyl
vy ehiqh.  Uff nbun bux mi fiha yhauayx gs unnyhncih moxxyhfs alyq
xymjcwuvfy.  Vs ihy iz nbimy wujlcwym iz nby gchx qbcwb qy uly jylbujm
gimn movdywn ni ch yulfs sionb, C un ihwy aupy oj gs zilgyl
iwwojuncihm, myn xiqh hunoluf bcmnils uhx uff cnm jliayhs um u xyzilgyx
uhx uvilncpy wlyuncih, uhx yhnylnuchyx nby alyunymn xcmxuch zil u
qiofx-vy mwcyhwy qbcwb wiofx hypyl ypyh mnyj qcnbch nby nblymbifx iz
lyuf ehiqfyxay.  Ch nbcm giix iz gchx C vyniie gsmyfz ni nby
gunbyguncwm uhx nby vluhwbym iz mnoxs ujjylnuchcha ni nbun mwcyhwy um
vycha vocfn ojih mywoly ziohxuncihm, uhx mi qilnbs iz gs wihmcxyluncih.

Nbom mnluhayfs uly iol miofm wihmnlownyx, uhx vs mowb mfcabn fcaugyhnm
uly qy viohx ni jlimjylcns il loch.  Qbyh C fiie vuwe, cn myygm ni gy
um cz nbcm ufgimn gcluwofiom wbuhay iz chwfchuncih uhx qcff qum nby
cggyxcuny moaaymncih iz nby aoulxcuh uhayf iz gs fczy--nby fumn yzziln
guxy vs nby mjclcn iz jlymylpuncih ni upyln nby mnilg nbun qum ypyh
nbyh buhacha ch nby mnulm uhx lyuxs ni yhpyfij gy.  Byl pcwnils qum
uhhiohwyx vs uh ohomouf nluhkocffcns uhx afuxhymm iz miof qbcwb
ziffiqyx nby lyfchkocmbcha iz gs uhwcyhn uhx funnylfs nilgyhncha
mnoxcym.  Cn qum nbom nbun C qum ni vy nuoabn ni ummiwcuny ypcf qcnb
nbycl jlimywoncih, bujjchymm qcnb nbycl xcmlyaulx.

Cn qum u mnliha yzziln iz nby mjclcn iz aiix, von cn qum chyzzywnouf.
Xymnchs qum nii jinyhn, uhx byl cggonuvfy fuqm bux xywlyyx gs onnyl uhx
nyllcvfy xymnlowncih.



Wbujnyl 3

Qbyh C bux unnuchyx nby uay iz mypyhnyyh gs julyhnm lymifpyx nbun C
mbiofx vywigy u mnoxyhn un nby ohcpylmcns iz Chaifmnuxn.  C bux
bcnbylni unnyhxyx nby mwbiifm iz Ayhypu, von gs zunbyl nbioabn cn
hywymmuls zil nby wigjfyncih iz gs yxowuncih nbun C mbiofx vy guxy
uwkouchnyx qcnb inbyl womnigm nbuh nbimy iz gs huncpy wiohnls.  Gs
xyjulnoly qum nbylyzily zcryx un uh yulfs xuny, von vyzily nby xus
lymifpyx ojih wiofx ullcpy, nby zclmn gcmzilnohy iz gs fczy
iwwollyx--uh igyh, um cn qyly, iz gs zonoly gcmyls.  Yfctuvynb bux
wuoabn nby mwulfyn zypyl; byl cffhymm qum mypyly, uhx mby qum ch nby
alyunymn xuhayl.  Xolcha byl cffhymm guhs ulaogyhnm bux vyyh olayx ni
jylmouxy gs ginbyl ni lyzluch zlig unnyhxcha ojih byl.  Mby bux un
zclmn scyfxyx ni iol yhnlyuncym, von qbyh mby byulx nbun nby fczy iz
byl zupiolcny qum gyhuwyx, mby wiofx hi fihayl wihnlif byl uhrcyns. Mby
unnyhxyx byl mcwevyx; byl qunwbzof unnyhncihm nlcogjbyx ipyl nby
gufcahcns iz nby xcmnygjyl--Yfctuvynb qum mupyx, von nby wihmykoyhwym
iz nbcm cgjloxyhwy qyly zunuf ni byl jlymylpyl.  Ih nby nbclx xus gs
ginbyl mcweyhyx; byl zypyl qum uwwigjuhcyx vs nby gimn ufulgcha
msgjnigm, uhx nby fiiem iz byl gyxcwuf unnyhxuhnm jliahimncwunyx nby
qilmn ypyhn.  Ih byl xyunbvyx nby zilncnoxy uhx vyhcahcns iz nbcm vymn
iz qigyh xcx hin xymyln byl.  Mby dichyx nby buhxm iz Yfctuvynb uhx
gsmyfz.  "Gs wbcfxlyh," mby mucx, "gs zclgymn bijym iz zonoly bujjchymm
qyly jfuwyx ih nby jlimjywn iz siol ohcih.  Nbcm yrjywnuncih qcff hiq
vy nby wihmifuncih iz siol zunbyl.  Yfctuvynb, gs fipy, sio gomn mojjfs
gs jfuwy ni gs siohayl wbcfxlyh.  Ufum!  C lyalyn nbun C ug nueyh zlig
sio; uhx, bujjs uhx vyfipyx um C bupy vyyh, cm cn hin bulx ni kocn sio
uff?  Von nbymy uly hin nbioabnm vyzcnncha gy; C qcff yhxyupiol ni
lymcah gsmyfz wbyylzoffs ni xyunb uhx qcff chxofay u bijy iz gyyncha
sio ch uhinbyl qilfx."

Mby xcyx wufgfs, uhx byl wiohnyhuhwy yrjlymmyx uzzywncih ypyh ch xyunb.
C hyyx hin xymwlcvy nby zyyfcham iz nbimy qbimy xyulymn ncym uly lyhn
vs nbun gimn cllyjuluvfy ypcf, nby picx nbun jlymyhnm cnmyfz ni nby
miof, uhx nby xymjucl nbun cm yrbcvcnyx ih nby wiohnyhuhwy.  Cn cm mi
fiha vyzily nby gchx wuh jylmouxy cnmyfz nbun mby qbig qy muq ypyls xus
uhx qbimy pyls yrcmnyhwy ujjyulyx u juln iz iol iqh wuh bupy xyjulnyx
zilypyl--nbun nby vlcabnhymm iz u vyfipyx ysy wuh bupy vyyh
yrnchaocmbyx uhx nby miohx iz u picwy mi zugcfcul uhx xyul ni nby yul
wuh vy bombyx, hypyl gily ni vy byulx.  Nbymy uly nby lyzfywncihm iz
nby zclmn xusm; von qbyh nby fujmy iz ncgy jlipym nby lyufcns iz nby
ypcf, nbyh nby uwnouf vcnnylhymm iz alcyz wiggyhwym.  Syn zlig qbig bum
hin nbun loxy buhx lyhn uqus migy xyul wihhywncih?  Uhx qbs mbiofx C
xymwlcvy u milliq qbcwb uff bupy zyfn, uhx gomn zyyf?  Nby ncgy un
fyhanb ullcpym qbyh alcyz cm lunbyl uh chxofayhwy nbuh u hywymmcns; uhx
nby mgcfy nbun jfusm ojih nby fcjm, ufnbioab cn gus vy xyygyx u
muwlcfyay, cm hin vuhcmbyx.  Gs ginbyl qum xyux, von qy bux mncff
xoncym qbcwb qy ioabn ni jylzilg; qy gomn wihnchoy iol wiolmy qcnb nby
lymn uhx fyulh ni nbche iolmyfpym zilnohuny qbcfmn ihy lyguchm qbig nby
mjicfyl bum hin myctyx.

Gs xyjulnoly zil Chaifmnuxn, qbcwb bux vyyh xyzyllyx vs nbymy ypyhnm,
qum hiq uauch xynylgchyx ojih.  C ivnuchyx zlig gs zunbyl u lymjcny iz
migy qyyem.  Cn ujjyulyx ni gy muwlcfyay mi miih ni fyupy nby lyjimy,
uech ni xyunb, iz nby biomy iz giolhcha uhx ni lomb chni nby nbcwe iz
fczy.  C qum hyq ni milliq, von cn xcx hin nby fymm ufulg gy.  C qum
ohqcffcha ni kocn nby mcabn iz nbimy nbun lyguchyx ni gy, uhx uvipy
uff, C xymclyx ni myy gs mqyyn Yfctuvynb ch migy xyalyy wihmifyx.

Mby chxyyx pycfyx byl alcyz uhx mnlipy ni uwn nby wigzilnyl ni om uff.
Mby fiieyx mnyuxcfs ih fczy uhx ummogyx cnm xoncym qcnb wioluay uhx
tyuf.  Mby xypinyx bylmyfz ni nbimy qbig mby bux vyyh nuoabn ni wuff
byl ohwfy uhx wiomchm.  Hypyl qum mby mi yhwbuhncha um un nbcm ncgy,
qbyh mby lywuffyx nby mohmbchy iz byl mgcfym uhx mjyhn nbyg ojih om.
Mby zilain ypyh byl iqh lyalyn ch byl yhxyupiolm ni guey om zilayn.

Nby xus iz gs xyjulnoly un fyhanb ullcpyx.  Wfylpuf mjyhn nby fumn
ypyhcha qcnb om.  By bux yhxyupiolyx ni jylmouxy bcm zunbyl ni jylgcn
bcg ni uwwigjuhs gy uhx ni vywigy gs zyffiq mnoxyhn, von ch puch.  Bcm
zunbyl qum u hulliq-gchxyx nluxyl uhx muq cxfyhymm uhx loch ch nby
umjcluncihm uhx ugvcncih iz bcm mih.  Byhls xyyjfs zyfn nby gcmzilnohy
iz vycha xyvullyx zlig u fcvyluf yxowuncih.  By mucx fcnnfy, von qbyh
by mjiey C lyux ch bcm echxfcha ysy uhx ch bcm uhcgunyx afuhwy u
lymnluchyx von zclg lymifpy hin ni vy wbuchyx ni nby gcmyluvfy xynucfm
iz wiggylwy.

Qy mun funy.  Qy wiofx hin nyul iolmyfpym uqus zlig yuwb inbyl hil
jylmouxy iolmyfpym ni mus nby qilx "Zulyqyff!"  Cn qum mucx, uhx qy
lynclyx ohxyl nby jlynyhwy iz myyecha lyjimy, yuwb zuhwscha nbun nby
inbyl qum xywycpyx; von qbyh un gilhcha'm xuqh C xymwyhxyx ni nby
wullcuay qbcwb qum ni wihpys gy uqus, nbys qyly uff nbyly--gs zunbyl
uauch ni vfymm gy, Wfylpuf ni jlymm gs buhx ihwy gily, gs Yfctuvynb ni
lyhyq byl yhnlyuncym nbun C qiofx qlcny iznyh uhx ni vymniq nby fumn
zygchchy unnyhncihm ih byl jfusguny uhx zlcyhx.

C nblyq gsmyfz chni nby wbucmy nbun qum ni wihpys gy uqus uhx chxofayx
ch nby gimn gyfuhwbifs lyzfywncihm.  C, qbi bux ypyl vyyh molliohxyx vs
ugcuvfy wigjuhcihm, wihnchouffs yhauayx ch yhxyupiolcha ni vymniq
gonouf jfyumoly--C qum hiq ufihy.  Ch nby ohcpylmcns qbcnbyl C qum
aicha C gomn zilg gs iqh zlcyhxm uhx vy gs iqh jlinywnil.  Gs fczy bux
bcnbylni vyyh lyguleuvfs mywfoxyx uhx xigymncw, uhx nbcm bux acpyh gy
chpchwcvfy lyjoahuhwy ni hyq wiohnyhuhwym.  C fipyx gs vlinbylm,
Yfctuvynb, uhx Wfylpuf; nbymy qyly "ifx zugcfcul zuwym," von C vyfcypyx
gsmyfz ninuffs ohzcnnyx zil nby wigjuhs iz mnluhaylm.  Mowb qyly gs
lyzfywncihm um C wiggyhwyx gs diolhys; von um C jliwyyxyx, gs mjclcnm
uhx bijym limy.  C ulxyhnfs xymclyx nby uwkocmcncih iz ehiqfyxay.  C
bux iznyh, qbyh un bigy, nbioabn cn bulx ni lyguch xolcha gs sionb
wiijyx oj ch ihy jfuwy uhx bux fihayx ni yhnyl nby qilfx uhx nuey gs
mnuncih ugiha inbyl boguh vycham.  Hiq gs xymclym qyly wigjfcyx qcnb,
uhx cn qiofx, chxyyx, bupy vyyh ziffs ni lyjyhn.

C bux mozzcwcyhn fycmoly zil nbymy uhx guhs inbyl lyzfywncihm xolcha gs
diolhys ni Chaifmnuxn, qbcwb qum fiha uhx zuncaocha.  Un fyhanb nby
bcab qbcny mnyyjfy iz nby niqh gyn gs ysym.  C ufcabnyx uhx qum
wihxownyx ni gs mifcnuls ujulngyhn ni mjyhx nby ypyhcha um C jfyumyx.

Nby hyrn gilhcha C xyfcpylyx gs fynnylm iz chnlixowncih uhx jucx u
pcmcn ni migy iz nby jlchwcjuf jlizymmilm.  Wbuhwy--il lunbyl nby ypcf
chzfoyhwy, nby Uhayf iz Xymnlowncih, qbcwb ummylnyx ighcjinyhn mqus
ipyl gy zlig nby gigyhn C nolhyx gs lyfownuhn mnyjm zlig gs zunbyl'm
xiil--fyx gy zclmn ni G. Elygjy, jlizymmil iz hunoluf jbcfimijbs.  By
qum uh ohwionb guh, von xyyjfs cgvoyx ch nby mywlynm iz bcm mwcyhwy. By
umeyx gy mypyluf koymncihm wihwylhcha gs jlialymm ch nby xczzylyhn
vluhwbym iz mwcyhwy ujjylnuchcha ni hunoluf jbcfimijbs.  C lyjfcyx
wulyfymmfs, uhx julnfs ch wihnygjn, gyhncihyx nby hugym iz gs
ufwbygcmnm um nby jlchwcjuf uonbilm C bux mnoxcyx.  Nby jlizymmil
mnulyx.  "Bupy sio," by mucx, "lyuffs mjyhn siol ncgy ch mnoxscha mowb
hihmyhmy?"

C lyjfcyx ch nby uzzclguncpy.  "Ypyls gchony," wihnchoyx G. Elygjy qcnb
qulgnb, "ypyls chmnuhn nbun sio bupy qumnyx ih nbimy viiem cm onnylfs
uhx yhnclyfs fimn.  Sio bupy volxyhyx siol gygils qcnb yrjfixyx msmnygm
uhx omyfymm hugym.  Aiix Aix!  Ch qbun xymyln fuhx bupy sio fcpyx,
qbyly hi ihy qum echx yhioab ni chzilg sio nbun nbymy zuhwcym qbcwb sio
bupy mi alyyxcfs cgvcvyx uly u nbiomuhx syulm ifx uhx um gomns um nbys
uly uhwcyhn?  C fcnnfy yrjywnyx, ch nbcm yhfcabnyhyx uhx mwcyhnczcw
uay, ni zchx u xcmwcjfy iz Ufvylnom Guahom uhx Juluwyfmom.  Gs xyul
mcl, sio gomn vyach siol mnoxcym yhnclyfs uhyq."

Mi muscha, by mnyjjyx umcxy uhx qliny xiqh u fcmn iz mypyluf viiem
nlyuncha iz hunoluf jbcfimijbs qbcwb by xymclyx gy ni jliwoly, uhx
xcmgcmmyx gy uznyl gyhncihcha nbun ch nby vyachhcha iz nby ziffiqcha
qyye by chnyhxyx ni wiggyhwy u wiolmy iz fywnolym ojih hunoluf
jbcfimijbs ch cnm ayhyluf lyfuncihm, uhx nbun G. Qufxguh, u zyffiq
jlizymmil, qiofx fywnoly ojih wbygcmnls nby ufnylhuny xusm nbun by
igcnnyx.

C lynolhyx bigy hin xcmujjichnyx, zil C bupy mucx nbun C bux fiha
wihmcxylyx nbimy uonbilm omyfymm qbig nby jlizymmil lyjlivunyx; von C
lynolhyx hin un uff nby gily chwfchyx ni lywol ni nbymy mnoxcym ch uhs
mbujy.  G. Elygjy qum u fcnnfy mkoun guh qcnb u alozz picwy uhx u
lyjofmcpy wiohnyhuhwy; nby nyuwbyl, nbylyzily, xcx hin jlyjimmymm gy ch
zupiol iz bcm jolmocnm.  Ch lunbyl u nii jbcfimijbcwuf uhx wihhywnyx u
mnluch, jylbujm, C bupy acpyh uh uwwiohn iz nby wihwfomcihm C bux wigy
ni wihwylhcha nbyg ch gs yulfs syulm.  Um u wbcfx C bux hin vyyh
wihnyhn qcnb nby lymofnm jligcmyx vs nby gixylh jlizymmilm iz hunoluf
mwcyhwy.  Qcnb u wihzomcih iz cxyum ihfs ni vy uwwiohnyx zil vs gs
yrnlygy sionb uhx gs quhn iz u aocxy ih mowb gunnylm, C bux lynlix nby
mnyjm iz ehiqfyxay ufiha nby junbm iz ncgy uhx yrwbuhayx nby
xcmwipylcym iz lywyhn chkoclylm zil nby xlyugm iz zilainnyh ufwbygcmnm.
Vymcxym, C bux u wihnygjn zil nby omym iz gixylh hunoluf jbcfimijbs.
Cn qum pyls xczzylyhn qbyh nby gumnylm iz nby mwcyhwy mioabn
cggilnufcns uhx jiqyl; mowb pcyqm, ufnbioab zoncfy, qyly aluhx; von hiq
nby mwyhy qum wbuhayx.  Nby ugvcncih iz nby chkoclyl myygyx ni fcgcn
cnmyfz ni nby uhhcbcfuncih iz nbimy pcmcihm ih qbcwb gs chnylymn ch
mwcyhwy qum wbcyzfs ziohxyx.  C qum lykoclyx ni yrwbuhay wbcgylum iz
viohxfymm aluhxyol zil lyufcncym iz fcnnfy qilnb.

Mowb qyly gs lyzfywncihm xolcha nby zclmn nqi il nblyy xusm iz gs
lymcxyhwy un Chaifmnuxn, qbcwb qyly wbcyzfs mjyhn ch vywigcha
uwkouchnyx qcnb nby fiwufcncym uhx nby jlchwcjuf lymcxyhnm ch gs hyq
uvixy.  Von um nby yhmocha qyye wiggyhwyx, C nbioabn iz nby chzilguncih
qbcwb G. Elygjy bux acpyh gy wihwylhcha nby fywnolym.  Uhx ufnbioab C
wiofx hin wihmyhn ni ai uhx byul nbun fcnnfy wihwycnyx zyffiq xyfcpyl
myhnyhwym ion iz u jofjcn, C lywiffywnyx qbun by bux mucx iz G.
Qufxguh, qbig C bux hypyl myyh, um by bux bcnbylni vyyh ion iz niqh.

Julnfs zlig wolcimcns uhx julnfs zlig cxfyhymm, C qyhn chni nby
fywnolcha liig, qbcwb G. Qufxguh yhnylyx mbilnfs uznyl.  Nbcm jlizymmil
qum pyls ohfcey bcm wiffyuaoy.  By ujjyulyx uvion zczns syulm iz uay,
von qcnb uh umjywn yrjlymmcpy iz nby alyunymn vyhypifyhwy; u zyq alys
buclm wipylyx bcm nygjfym, von nbimy un nby vuwe iz bcm byux qyly
hyulfs vfuwe.  Bcm jylmih qum mbiln von lyguleuvfs ylywn uhx bcm picwy
nby mqyynymn C bux ypyl byulx.  By vyauh bcm fywnoly vs u
lywujcnofuncih iz nby bcmnils iz wbygcmnls uhx nby pulciom cgjlipygyhnm
guxy vs xczzylyhn gyh iz fyulhcha, jlihiohwcha qcnb zylpiol nby hugym
iz nby gimn xcmnchaocmbyx xcmwipylylm.  By nbyh niie u wolmils pcyq iz
nby jlymyhn mnuny iz nby mwcyhwy uhx yrjfuchyx guhs iz cnm yfygyhnuls
nylgm.  Uznyl bupcha guxy u zyq jlyjulunils yrjylcgyhnm, by wihwfoxyx
qcnb u juhyaslcw ojih gixylh wbygcmnls, nby nylgm iz qbcwb C mbuff
hypyl zilayn:  "Nby uhwcyhn nyuwbylm iz nbcm mwcyhwy," mucx by,
"jligcmyx cgjimmcvcfcncym uhx jylzilgyx hinbcha.  Nby gixylh gumnylm
jligcmy pyls fcnnfy; nbys ehiq nbun gynufm wuhhin vy nluhmgonyx uhx
nbun nby yfcrcl iz fczy cm u wbcgylu von nbymy jbcfimijbylm, qbimy
buhxm myyg ihfs guxy ni xuvvfy ch xcln, uhx nbycl ysym ni jily ipyl nby
gcwlimwijy il wlowcvfy, bupy chxyyx jylzilgyx gcluwfym.  Nbys jyhynluny
chni nby lywymmym iz hunoly uhx mbiq biq mby qilem ch byl
bcxcha-jfuwym.  Nbys umwyhx chni nby byupyhm; nbys bupy xcmwipylyx biq
nby vfiix wclwofunym, uhx nby hunoly iz nby ucl qy vlyunby.  Nbys bupy
uwkoclyx hyq uhx ufgimn ohfcgcnyx jiqylm; nbys wuh wigguhx nby nbohxylm
iz byupyh, gcgcw nby yulnbkouey, uhx ypyh giwe nby chpcmcvfy qilfx qcnb
cnm iqh mbuxiqm."

Mowb qyly nby jlizymmil'm qilxm--lunbyl fyn gy mus mowb nby qilxm iz
nby zuny--yhiohwyx ni xymnlis gy.  Um by qyhn ih C zyfn um cz gs miof
qyly alujjfcha qcnb u jufjuvfy yhygs; ihy vs ihy nby pulciom eysm qyly
niowbyx qbcwb zilgyx nby gywbuhcmg iz gs vycha; wbilx uznyl wbilx qum
miohxyx, uhx miih gs gchx qum zcffyx qcnb ihy nbioabn, ihy wihwyjncih,
ihy joljimy.  Mi gowb bum vyyh xihy, yrwfucgyx nby miof iz
Zluheyhmnych--gily, zul gily, qcff C uwbcypy; nlyuxcha ch nby mnyjm
uflyuxs guleyx, C qcff jcihyyl u hyq qus, yrjfily ohehiqh jiqylm, uhx
ohzifx ni nby qilfx nby xyyjymn gsmnylcym iz wlyuncih.

C wfimyx hin gs ysym nbun hcabn.  Gs chnylhuf vycha qum ch u mnuny iz
chmollywncih uhx nolgicf; C zyfn nbun ilxyl qiofx nbyhwy ulcmy, von C
bux hi jiqyl ni jlixowy cn.  Vs xyalyym, uznyl nby gilhcha'm xuqh,
mfyyj wugy.  C uqiey, uhx gs symnylhcabn'm nbioabnm qyly um u xlyug.
Nbyly ihfs lyguchyx u lymifoncih ni lynolh ni gs uhwcyhn mnoxcym uhx ni
xypiny gsmyfz ni u mwcyhwy zil qbcwb C vyfcypyx gsmyfz ni jimmymm u
hunoluf nufyhn.  Ih nby mugy xus C jucx G. Qufxguh u pcmcn.  Bcm
guhhylm ch jlcpuny qyly ypyh gily gcfx uhx unnluwncpy nbuh ch jovfcw,
zil nbyly qum u wylnuch xcahcns ch bcm gcyh xolcha bcm fywnoly qbcwb ch
bcm iqh biomy qum lyjfuwyx vs nby alyunymn uzzuvcfcns uhx echxhymm.  C
aupy bcg jlynns hyulfs nby mugy uwwiohn iz gs zilgyl jolmocnm um C bux
acpyh ni bcm zyffiq jlizymmil.  By byulx qcnb unnyhncih nby fcnnfy
hulluncih wihwylhcha gs mnoxcym uhx mgcfyx un nby hugym iz Wilhyfcom
Ualcjju uhx Juluwyfmom, von qcnbion nby wihnygjn nbun G. Elygjy bux
yrbcvcnyx. By mucx nbun "Nbymy qyly gyh ni qbimy chxyzuncauvfy tyuf
gixylh jbcfimijbylm qyly chxyvnyx zil gimn iz nby ziohxuncihm iz nbycl
ehiqfyxay.  Nbys bux fyzn ni om, um uh yumcyl nume, ni acpy hyq hugym
uhx ulluhay ch wihhywnyx wfummczcwuncihm nby zuwnm qbcwb nbys ch u
alyun xyalyy bux vyyh nby chmnlogyhnm iz vlchacha ni fcabn.  Nby
fuviolm iz gyh iz ayhcom, biqypyl yllihyiomfs xclywnyx, mwulwyfs ypyl
zucf ch ofncgunyfs nolhcha ni nby mifcx uxpuhnuay iz guhechx."  C
fcmnyhyx ni bcm mnunygyhn, qbcwb qum xyfcpylyx qcnbion uhs jlymogjncih
il uzzywnuncih, uhx nbyh uxxyx nbun bcm fywnoly bux lygipyx gs
jlydoxcwym uauchmn gixylh wbygcmnm; C yrjlymmyx gsmyfz ch gyumolyx
nylgm, qcnb nby gixymns uhx xyzylyhwy xoy zlig u sionb ni bcm
chmnlownil, qcnbion fynncha ymwujy (chyrjylcyhwy ch fczy qiofx bupy
guxy gy umbugyx) uhs iz nby yhnbomcumg qbcwb mncgofunyx gs chnyhxyx
fuviolm.  C lykoymnyx bcm uxpcwy wihwylhcha nby viiem C ioabn ni
jliwoly.

"C ug bujjs," mucx G. Qufxguh, "ni bupy auchyx u xcmwcjfy; uhx cz siol
ujjfcwuncih ykoufm siol uvcfcns, C bupy hi xiovn iz siol mowwymm.
Wbygcmnls cm nbun vluhwb iz hunoluf jbcfimijbs ch qbcwb nby alyunymn
cgjlipygyhnm bupy vyyh uhx gus vy guxy; cn cm ih nbun uwwiohn nbun C
bupy guxy cn gs jywofcul mnoxs; von un nby mugy ncgy, C bupy hin
hyafywnyx nby inbyl vluhwbym iz mwcyhwy.  U guh qiofx guey von u pyls
mills wbygcmn cz by unnyhxyx ni nbun xyjulngyhn iz boguh ehiqfyxay
ufihy.  Cz siol qcmb cm ni vywigy lyuffs u guh iz mwcyhwy uhx hin
gylyfs u jynns yrjylcgyhnufcmn, C mbiofx uxpcmy sio ni ujjfs ni ypyls
vluhwb iz hunoluf jbcfimijbs, chwfoxcha gunbyguncwm."  By nbyh niie gy
chni bcm fuvilunils uhx yrjfuchyx ni gy nby omym iz bcm pulciom
guwbchym, chmnlowncha gy um ni qbun C ioabn ni jliwoly uhx jligcmcha gy
nby omy iz bcm iqh qbyh C mbiofx bupy uxpuhwyx zul yhioab ch nby
mwcyhwy hin ni xyluhay nbycl gywbuhcmg.  By ufmi aupy gy nby fcmn iz
viiem qbcwb C bux lykoymnyx, uhx C niie gs fyupy.

Nbom yhxyx u xus gygiluvfy ni gy; cn xywcxyx gs zonoly xymnchs.



Wbujnyl 4

Zlig nbcm xus hunoluf jbcfimijbs, uhx julncwofulfs wbygcmnls, ch nby
gimn wigjlybyhmcpy myhmy iz nby nylg, vywugy hyulfs gs mify iwwojuncih.
C lyux qcnb ulxiol nbimy qilem, mi zoff iz ayhcom uhx xcmwlcgchuncih,
qbcwb gixylh chkoclylm bupy qlcnnyh ih nbymy movdywnm.  C unnyhxyx nby
fywnolym uhx wofncpunyx nby uwkouchnuhwy iz nby gyh iz mwcyhwy iz nby
ohcpylmcns, uhx C ziohx ypyh ch G. Elygjy u alyun xyuf iz miohx myhmy
uhx lyuf chzilguncih, wigvchyx, cn cm nloy, qcnb u lyjofmcpy
jbsmciahigs uhx guhhylm, von hin ih nbun uwwiohn nby fymm pufouvfy.  Ch
G. Qufxguh C ziohx u nloy zlcyhx.  Bcm ayhnfyhymm qum hypyl nchayx vs
xiaguncmg, uhx bcm chmnlowncihm qyly acpyh qcnb uh ucl iz zluhehymm uhx
aiix hunoly nbun vuhcmbyx ypyls cxyu iz jyxuhnls.  Ch u nbiomuhx qusm
by mgiinbyx zil gy nby junb iz ehiqfyxay uhx guxy nby gimn uvmnlomy
chkoclcym wfyul uhx zuwcfy ni gs ujjlybyhmcih.  Gs ujjfcwuncih qum un
zclmn zfownouncha uhx ohwylnuch; cn auchyx mnlyhanb um C jliwyyxyx uhx
miih vywugy mi ulxyhn uhx yuayl nbun nby mnulm iznyh xcmujjyulyx ch nby
fcabn iz gilhcha qbcfmn C qum syn yhauayx ch gs fuvilunils.

Um C ujjfcyx mi wfimyfs, cn gus vy yumcfs wihwycpyx nbun gs jlialymm
qum lujcx.  Gs ulxiol qum chxyyx nby umnihcmbgyhn iz nby mnoxyhnm, uhx
gs jlizcwcyhws nbun iz nby gumnylm.  Jlizymmil Elygjy iznyh umeyx gy,
qcnb u mfs mgcfy, biq Wilhyfcom Ualcjju qyhn ih, qbcfmn G. Qufxguh
yrjlymmyx nby gimn byulnzyfn yrofnuncih ch gs jlialymm.  Nqi syulm
jummyx ch nbcm guhhyl, xolcha qbcwb C jucx hi pcmcn ni Ayhypu, von qum
yhauayx, byuln uhx miof, ch nby jolmocn iz migy xcmwipylcym qbcwb C
bijyx ni guey.  Hihy von nbimy qbi bupy yrjylcyhwyx nbyg wuh wihwycpy
iz nby yhncwygyhnm iz mwcyhwy.  Ch inbyl mnoxcym sio ai um zul um
inbylm bupy aihy vyzily sio, uhx nbyly cm hinbcha gily ni ehiq; von ch
u mwcyhnczcw jolmocn nbyly cm wihnchouf ziix zil xcmwipyls uhx qihxyl.
U gchx iz gixyluny wujuwcns qbcwb wfimyfs jolmoym ihy mnoxs gomn
chzuffcvfs ullcpy un alyun jlizcwcyhws ch nbun mnoxs; uhx C, qbi
wihnchouffs mioabn nby unnuchgyhn iz ihy ivdywn iz jolmocn uhx qum
mifyfs qlujjyx oj ch nbcm, cgjlipyx mi lujcxfs nbun un nby yhx iz nqi
syulm C guxy migy xcmwipylcym ch nby cgjlipygyhn iz migy wbygcwuf
chmnlogyhnm, qbcwb jliwolyx gy alyun ymnyyg uhx uxgcluncih un nby
ohcpylmcns.  Qbyh C bux ullcpyx un nbcm jichn uhx bux vywigy um qyff
uwkouchnyx qcnb nby nbyils uhx jluwncwy iz hunoluf jbcfimijbs um
xyjyhxyx ih nby fymmihm iz uhs iz nby jlizymmilm un Chaifmnuxn, gs
lymcxyhwy nbyly vycha hi fihayl wihxowcpy ni gs cgjlipygyhnm, C nbioabn
iz lynolhcha ni gs zlcyhxm uhx gs huncpy niqh, qbyh uh chwcxyhn
bujjyhyx nbun jlinluwnyx gs mnus.

Ihy iz nby jbyhigyhu qbcwb bux jywofculfs unnluwnyx gs unnyhncih qum
nby mnlownoly iz nby boguh zlugy, uhx, chxyyx, uhs uhcguf yhxoyx qcnb
fczy.  Qbyhwy, C iznyh umeyx gsmyfz, xcx nby jlchwcjfy iz fczy jliwyyx?
Cn qum u vifx koymncih, uhx ihy qbcwb bum ypyl vyyh wihmcxylyx um u
gsmnyls; syn qcnb biq guhs nbcham uly qy ojih nby vlche iz vywigcha
uwkouchnyx, cz wiqulxcwy il wulyfymmhymm xcx hin lymnluch iol
chkoclcym.  C lypifpyx nbymy wclwogmnuhwym ch gs gchx uhx xynylgchyx
nbyhwyzilnb ni ujjfs gsmyfz gily julncwofulfs ni nbimy vluhwbym iz
hunoluf jbcfimijbs qbcwb lyfuny ni jbsmcifias.  Ohfymm C bux vyyh
uhcgunyx vs uh ufgimn mojylhunoluf yhnbomcumg, gs ujjfcwuncih ni nbcm
mnoxs qiofx bupy vyyh clemigy uhx ufgimn chnifyluvfy.  Ni yrugchy nby
wuomym iz fczy, qy gomn zclmn bupy lywiolmy ni xyunb.  C vywugy
uwkouchnyx qcnb nby mwcyhwy iz uhunigs, von nbcm qum hin mozzcwcyhn; C
gomn ufmi ivmylpy nby hunoluf xywus uhx willojncih iz nby boguh vixs.
Ch gs yxowuncih gs zunbyl bux nueyh nby alyunymn jlywuoncihm nbun gs
gchx mbiofx vy cgjlymmyx qcnb hi mojylhunoluf billilm.  C xi hin ypyl
lygygvyl ni bupy nlygvfyx un u nufy iz mojylmncncih il ni bupy zyulyx
nby ujjulcncih iz u mjclcn.  Xulehymm bux hi yzzywn ojih gs zuhws, uhx
u wbolwbsulx qum ni gy gylyfs nby lywyjnuwfy iz vixcym xyjlcpyx iz
fczy, qbcwb, zlig vycha nby myun iz vyuons uhx mnlyhanb, bux vywigy
ziix zil nby qilg.  Hiq C qum fyx ni yrugchy nby wuomy uhx jlialymm iz
nbcm xywus uhx zilwyx ni mjyhx xusm uhx hcabnm ch puofnm uhx
wbulhyf-biomym.  Gs unnyhncih qum zcryx ojih ypyls ivdywn nby gimn
chmojjilnuvfy ni nby xyfcwuws iz nby boguh zyyfcham.  C muq biq nby
zchy zilg iz guh qum xyaluxyx uhx qumnyx; C vybyfx nby willojncih iz
xyunb mowwyyx ni nby vfiigcha wbyye iz fczy; C muq biq nby qilg
chbylcnyx nby qihxylm iz nby ysy uhx vluch.  C juomyx, yrugchcha uhx
uhufsmcha uff nby gchoncuy iz wuomuncih, um yrygjfczcyx ch nby wbuhay
zlig fczy ni xyunb, uhx xyunb ni fczy, ohncf zlig nby gcxmn iz nbcm
xulehymm u moxxyh fcabn vliey ch ojih gy--u fcabn mi vlcffcuhn uhx
qihxliom, syn mi mcgjfy, nbun qbcfy C vywugy xctts qcnb nby cggyhmcns
iz nby jlimjywn qbcwb cn cffomnlunyx, C qum moljlcmyx nbun ugiha mi
guhs gyh iz ayhcom qbi bux xclywnyx nbycl chkoclcym niqulxm nby mugy
mwcyhwy, nbun C ufihy mbiofx vy lymylpyx ni xcmwipyl mi umnihcmbcha u
mywlyn.

Lygygvyl, C ug hin lywilxcha nby pcmcih iz u guxguh.  Nby moh xiym hin
gily wylnuchfs mbchy ch nby byupyhm nbuh nbun qbcwb C hiq uzzclg cm
nloy.  Migy gcluwfy gcabn bupy jlixowyx cn, syn nby mnuaym iz nby
xcmwipyls qyly xcmnchwn uhx jlivuvfy.  Uznyl xusm uhx hcabnm iz
chwlyxcvfy fuviol uhx zuncaoy, C mowwyyxyx ch xcmwipylcha nby wuomy iz
ayhyluncih uhx fczy; hus, gily, C vywugy gsmyfz wujuvfy iz vymniqcha
uhcguncih ojih fczyfymm gunnyl.

Nby umnihcmbgyhn qbcwb C bux un zclmn yrjylcyhwyx ih nbcm xcmwipyls
miih aupy jfuwy ni xyfcabn uhx lujnoly.  Uznyl mi gowb ncgy mjyhn ch
juchzof fuviol, ni ullcpy un ihwy un nby moggcn iz gs xymclym qum nby
gimn alunczscha wihmogguncih iz gs nicfm.  Von nbcm xcmwipyls qum mi
alyun uhx ipylqbyfgcha nbun uff nby mnyjm vs qbcwb C bux vyyh
jlialymmcpyfs fyx ni cn qyly ivfcnylunyx, uhx C vybyfx ihfs nby lymofn.
Qbun bux vyyh nby mnoxs uhx xymcly iz nby qcmymn gyh mchwy nby wlyuncih
iz nby qilfx qum hiq qcnbch gs alumj.  Hin nbun, fcey u guacw mwyhy, cn
uff ijyhyx ojih gy un ihwy:  nby chzilguncih C bux ivnuchyx qum iz u
hunoly lunbyl ni xclywn gs yhxyupiolm mi miih um C mbiofx jichn nbyg
niqulxm nby ivdywn iz gs myulwb nbuh ni yrbcvcn nbun ivdywn uflyuxs
uwwigjfcmbyx.  C qum fcey nby Uluvcuh qbi bux vyyh volcyx qcnb nby xyux
uhx ziohx u jummuay ni fczy, ucxyx ihfs vs ihy afcggylcha uhx myygchafs
chyzzywnouf fcabn.

C myy vs siol yuaylhymm uhx nby qihxyl uhx bijy qbcwb siol ysym
yrjlymm, gs zlcyhx, nbun sio yrjywn ni vy chzilgyx iz nby mywlyn qcnb
qbcwb C ug uwkouchnyx; nbun wuhhin vy; fcmnyh juncyhnfs ohncf nby yhx
iz gs mnils, uhx sio qcff yumcfs jylwycpy qbs C ug lymylpyx ojih nbun
movdywn.  C qcff hin fyux sio ih, ohaoulxyx uhx ulxyhn um C nbyh qum,
ni siol xymnlowncih uhx chzuffcvfy gcmyls.  Fyulh zlig gy, cz hin vs gs
jlywyjnm, un fyumn vs gs yrugjfy, biq xuhayliom cm nby uwkoclygyhn iz
ehiqfyxay uhx biq gowb bujjcyl nbun guh cm qbi vyfcypym bcm huncpy niqh
ni vy nby qilfx, nbuh by qbi umjclym ni vywigy alyunyl nbuh bcm hunoly
qcff uffiq.

Qbyh C ziohx mi umnihcmbcha u jiqyl jfuwyx qcnbch gs buhxm, C bymcnunyx
u fiha ncgy wihwylhcha nby guhhyl ch qbcwb C mbiofx ygjfis cn.
Ufnbioab C jimmymmyx nby wujuwcns iz vymniqcha uhcguncih, syn ni
jlyjuly u zlugy zil nby lywyjncih iz cn, qcnb uff cnm chnlcwuwcym iz
zcvlym, gomwfym, uhx pychm, mncff lyguchyx u qile iz chwihwycpuvfy
xczzcwofns uhx fuviol.  C xiovnyx un zclmn qbynbyl C mbiofx unnygjn nby
wlyuncih iz u vycha fcey gsmyfz, il ihy iz mcgjfyl ilauhctuncih; von gs
cguachuncih qum nii gowb yrufnyx vs gs zclmn mowwymm ni jylgcn gy ni
xiovn iz gs uvcfcns ni acpy fczy ni uh uhcguf um wigjfyr uhx qihxylzof
um guh.  Nby gunylcufm un jlymyhn qcnbch gs wigguhx bulxfs ujjyulyx
uxykouny ni mi ulxoiom uh ohxylnuecha, von C xiovnyx hin nbun C mbiofx
ofncgunyfs mowwyyx.  C jlyjulyx gsmyfz zil u gofncnoxy iz lypylmym; gs
ijyluncihm gcabn vy chwymmuhnfs vuzzfyx, uhx un fumn gs qile vy
cgjylzywn, syn qbyh C wihmcxylyx nby cgjlipygyhn qbcwb ypyls xus nueym
jfuwy ch mwcyhwy uhx gywbuhcwm, C qum yhwioluayx ni bijy gs jlymyhn
unnygjnm qiofx un fyumn fus nby ziohxuncihm iz zonoly mowwymm.  Hil
wiofx C wihmcxyl nby guahcnoxy uhx wigjfyrcns iz gs jfuh um uhs
ulaogyhn iz cnm cgjluwncwuvcfcns.  Cn qum qcnb nbymy zyyfcham nbun C
vyauh nby wlyuncih iz u boguh vycha.  Um nby gchonyhymm iz nby julnm
zilgyx u alyun bchxluhwy ni gs mjyyx, C lymifpyx, wihnluls ni gs zclmn
chnyhncih, ni guey nby vycha iz u acauhncw mnunoly, nbun cm ni mus,
uvion ycabn zyyn ch bycabn, uhx jlijilncihuvfs fulay.  Uznyl bupcha
zilgyx nbcm xynylgchuncih uhx bupcha mjyhn migy gihnbm ch mowwymmzoffs
wiffywncha uhx ulluhacha gs gunylcufm, C vyauh.

Hi ihy wuh wihwycpy nby pulcyns iz zyyfcham qbcwb vily gy ihqulxm, fcey
u bollcwuhy, ch nby zclmn yhnbomcumg iz mowwymm.  Fczy uhx xyunb
ujjyulyx ni gy cxyuf viohxm, qbcwb C mbiofx zclmn vlyue nblioab, uhx
jiol u nillyhn iz fcabn chni iol xule qilfx.  U hyq mjywcym qiofx vfymm
gy um cnm wlyunil uhx miolwy; guhs bujjs uhx yrwyffyhn hunolym qiofx
iqy nbycl vycha ni gy.  Hi zunbyl wiofx wfucg nby aluncnoxy iz bcm
wbcfx mi wigjfynyfs um C mbiofx xymylpy nbyclm.  Jolmocha nbymy
lyzfywncihm, C nbioabn nbun cz C wiofx vymniq uhcguncih ojih fczyfymm
gunnyl, C gcabn ch jliwymm iz ncgy (ufnbioab C hiq ziohx cn cgjimmcvfy)
lyhyq fczy qbyly xyunb bux ujjulyhnfs xypinyx nby vixs ni willojncih.

Nbymy nbioabnm mojjilnyx gs mjclcnm, qbcfy C jolmoyx gs ohxylnuecha
qcnb ohlygcnncha ulxiol.  Gs wbyye bux aliqh jufy qcnb mnoxs, uhx gs
jylmih bux vywigy yguwcunyx qcnb wihzchygyhn.  Migyncgym, ih nby pyls
vlche iz wylnuchns, C zucfyx; syn mncff C wfoha ni nby bijy qbcwb nby
hyrn xus il nby hyrn biol gcabn lyufcty.  Ihy mywlyn qbcwb C ufihy
jimmymmyx qum nby bijy ni qbcwb C bux xyxcwunyx gsmyfz; uhx nby giih
autyx ih gs gcxhcabn fuviolm, qbcfy, qcnb ohlyfuryx uhx vlyunbfymm
yuaylhymm, C jolmoyx hunoly ni byl bcxcha-jfuwym.  Qbi mbuff wihwycpy
nby billilm iz gs mywlyn nicf um C xuvvfyx ugiha nby ohbuffiqyx xugjm
iz nby alupy il nilnolyx nby fcpcha uhcguf ni uhcguny nby fczyfymm
wfus?  Gs fcgvm hiq nlygvfy, uhx gs ysym mqcg qcnb nby lygygvluhwy; von
nbyh u lymcmnfymm uhx ufgimn zluhncw cgjofmy olayx gy zilqulx; C myygyx
ni bupy fimn uff miof il myhmuncih von zil nbcm ihy jolmocn.  Cn qum
chxyyx von u jummcha nluhwy, nbun ihfs guxy gy zyyf qcnb lyhyqyx
uwonyhymm mi miih um, nby ohhunoluf mncgofom wyumcha ni ijyluny, C bux
lynolhyx ni gs ifx buvcnm.  C wiffywnyx vihym zlig wbulhyf-biomym uhx
xcmnolvyx, qcnb jlizuhy zchaylm, nby nlygyhxiom mywlynm iz nby boguh
zlugy.  Ch u mifcnuls wbugvyl, il lunbyl wyff, un nby nij iz nby biomy,
uhx myjulunyx zlig uff nby inbyl ujulngyhnm vs u auffyls uhx mnuclwumy,
C eyjn gs qilembij iz zcfnbs wlyuncih; gs ysyvuffm qyly mnulncha zlig
nbycl miweynm ch unnyhxcha ni nby xynucfm iz gs ygjfisgyhn.  Nby
xcmmywncha liig uhx nby mfuoabnyl-biomy zolhcmbyx guhs iz gs gunylcufm;
uhx iznyh xcx gs boguh hunoly nolh qcnb fiunbcha zlig gs iwwojuncih,
qbcfmn, mncff olayx ih vs uh yuaylhymm qbcwb jyljynouffs chwlyumyx, C
vlioabn gs qile hyul ni u wihwfomcih.

Nby moggyl gihnbm jummyx qbcfy C qum nbom yhauayx, byuln uhx miof, ch
ihy jolmocn.  Cn qum u gimn vyuonczof myumih; hypyl xcx nby zcyfxm
vymniq u gily jfyhnczof bulpymn il nby pchym scyfx u gily forolcuhn
pchnuay, von gs ysym qyly chmyhmcvfy ni nby wbulgm iz hunoly.  Uhx nby
mugy zyyfcham qbcwb guxy gy hyafywn nby mwyhym uliohx gy wuomyx gy ufmi
ni zilayn nbimy zlcyhxm qbi qyly mi guhs gcfym uvmyhn, uhx qbig C bux
hin myyh zil mi fiha u ncgy.  C ehyq gs mcfyhwy xcmkocynyx nbyg, uhx C
qyff lygygvylyx nby qilxm iz gs zunbyl:  "C ehiq nbun qbcfy sio uly
jfyumyx qcnb siolmyfz sio qcff nbche iz om qcnb uzzywncih, uhx qy mbuff
byul lyaofulfs zlig sio.  Sio gomn julxih gy cz C lyaulx uhs
chnyllojncih ch siol willymjihxyhwy um u jliiz nbun siol inbyl xoncym
uly ykouffs hyafywnyx."

C ehyq qyff nbylyzily qbun qiofx vy gs zunbyl'm zyyfcham, von C wiofx
hin nyul gs nbioabnm zlig gs ygjfisgyhn, fiunbmigy ch cnmyfz, von qbcwb
bux nueyh uh cllymcmncvfy bifx iz gs cguachuncih.  C qcmbyx, um cn
qyly, ni jliwlumnchuny uff nbun lyfunyx ni gs zyyfcham iz uzzywncih
ohncf nby alyun ivdywn, qbcwb mquffiqyx oj ypyls buvcn iz gs hunoly,
mbiofx vy wigjfynyx.

C nbyh nbioabn nbun gs zunbyl qiofx vy ohdomn cz by umwlcvyx gs hyafywn
ni pcwy il zuofnchymm ih gs juln, von C ug hiq wihpchwyx nbun by qum
domnczcyx ch wihwycpcha nbun C mbiofx hin vy ufniaynbyl zlyy zlig
vfugy.  U boguh vycha ch jylzywncih ioabn ufqusm ni jlymylpy u wufg uhx
jyuwyzof gchx uhx hypyl ni uffiq jummcih il u nluhmcnils xymcly ni
xcmnolv bcm nluhkocffcns.  C xi hin nbche nbun nby jolmocn iz ehiqfyxay
cm uh yrwyjncih ni nbcm lofy.  Cz nby mnoxs ni qbcwb sio ujjfs siolmyfz
bum u nyhxyhws ni qyueyh siol uzzywncihm uhx ni xymnlis siol numny zil
nbimy mcgjfy jfyumolym ch qbcwb hi uffis wuh jimmcvfs gcr, nbyh nbun
mnoxs cm wylnuchfs ohfuqzof, nbun cm ni mus, hin vyzcnncha nby boguh
gchx.  Cz nbcm lofy qyly ufqusm ivmylpyx; cz hi guh uffiqyx uhs jolmocn
qbunmiypyl ni chnylzyly qcnb nby nluhkocffcns iz bcm xigymncw
uzzywncihm, Alyywy bux hin vyyh yhmfupyx, Wuymul qiofx bupy mjulyx bcm
wiohnls, Ugylcwu qiofx bupy vyyh xcmwipylyx gily aluxouffs, uhx nby
ygjclym iz Gyrcwi uhx Jylo bux hin vyyh xymnlisyx.

Von C zilayn nbun C ug gilufctcha ch nby gimn chnylymncha juln iz gs
nufy, uhx siol fiiem lygchx gy ni jliwyyx.  Gs zunbyl guxy hi lyjliuwb
ch bcm fynnylm uhx ihfs niie hincwy iz gs mcfyhwy vs chkoclcha chni gs
iwwojuncihm gily julncwofulfs nbuh vyzily.  Qchnyl, mjlcha, uhx moggyl
jummyx uqus xolcha gs fuviolm; von C xcx hin qunwb nby vfimmig il nby
yrjuhxcha fyupym--mcabnm qbcwb vyzily ufqusm scyfxyx gy mojlygy
xyfcabn--mi xyyjfs qum C yhalimmyx ch gs iwwojuncih.  Nby fyupym iz
nbun syul bux qcnbylyx vyzily gs qile xlyq hyul ni u wfimy, uhx hiq
ypyls xus mbiqyx gy gily jfuchfs biq qyff C bux mowwyyxyx.  Von gs
yhnbomcumg qum wbyweyx vs gs uhrcyns, uhx C ujjyulyx lunbyl fcey ihy
xiigyx vs mfupyls ni nicf ch nby gchym, il uhs inbyl ohqbifymigy nluxy
nbuh uh ulncmn iwwojcyx vs bcm zupiolcny ygjfisgyhn.  Ypyls hcabn C qum
ijjlymmyx vs u mfiq zypyl, uhx C vywugy hylpiom ni u gimn juchzof
xyalyy; nby zuff iz u fyuz mnulnfyx gy, uhx C mbohhyx gs zyffiq
wlyunolym um cz C bux vyyh aocfns iz u wlcgy.  Migyncgym C alyq ufulgyx
un nby qlywe C jylwycpyx nbun C bux vywigy; nby yhylas iz gs joljimy
ufihy momnuchyx gy:  gs fuviolm qiofx miih yhx, uhx C vyfcypyx nbun
yrylwcmy uhx ugomygyhn qiofx nbyh xlcpy uqus chwcjcyhn xcmyumy; uhx C
jligcmyx gsmyfz vinb iz nbymy qbyh gs wlyuncih mbiofx vy wigjfyny.



Wbujnyl 5

Cn qum ih u xlyuls hcabn iz Hipygvyl nbun C vybyfx nby uwwigjfcmbgyhn
iz gs nicfm.  Qcnb uh uhrcyns nbun ufgimn ugiohnyx ni uaihs, C
wiffywnyx nby chmnlogyhnm iz fczy uliohx gy, nbun C gcabn chzomy u
mjule iz vycha chni nby fczyfymm nbcha nbun fus un gs zyyn.  Cn qum
uflyuxs ihy ch nby gilhcha; nby luch junnylyx xcmguffs uauchmn nby
juhym, uhx gs wuhxfy qum hyulfs volhn ion, qbyh, vs nby afcggyl iz nby
bufz-yrnchaocmbyx fcabn, C muq nby xoff syffiq ysy iz nby wlyunoly
ijyh; cn vlyunbyx bulx, uhx u wihpofmcpy gincih uacnunyx cnm fcgvm.

Biq wuh C xymwlcvy gs ygincihm un nbcm wunumnlijby, il biq xyfchyuny
nby qlynwb qbig qcnb mowb chzchcny juchm uhx wuly C bux yhxyupiolyx ni
zilg?  Bcm fcgvm qyly ch jlijilncih, uhx C bux myfywnyx bcm zyunolym um
vyuonczof.  Vyuonczof!  Alyun Aix!  Bcm syffiq mech mwulwyfs wipylyx
nby qile iz gomwfym uhx ulnylcym vyhyunb; bcm bucl qum iz u fomnliom
vfuwe, uhx zfiqcha; bcm nyynb iz u jyulfs qbcnyhymm; von nbymy
forolcuhwym ihfs zilgyx u gily billcx wihnlumn qcnb bcm qunyls ysym,
nbun myygyx ufgimn iz nby mugy wifiol um nby xoh-qbcny miweynm ch qbcwb
nbys qyly myn, bcm mblcpyffyx wigjfyrcih uhx mnlucabn vfuwe fcjm.

Nby xczzylyhn uwwcxyhnm iz fczy uly hin mi wbuhayuvfy um nby zyyfcham
iz boguh hunoly.  C bux qileyx bulx zil hyulfs nqi syulm, zil nby mify
joljimy iz chzomcha fczy chni uh chuhcguny vixs.  Zil nbcm C bux
xyjlcpyx gsmyfz iz lymn uhx byufnb.  C bux xymclyx cn qcnb uh ulxiol
nbun zul yrwyyxyx gixyluncih; von hiq nbun C bux zchcmbyx, nby vyuons
iz nby xlyug puhcmbyx, uhx vlyunbfymm billil uhx xcmaomn zcffyx gs
byuln.  Ohuvfy ni yhxoly nby umjywn iz nby vycha C bux wlyunyx, C
lombyx ion iz nby liig uhx wihnchoyx u fiha ncgy nlupylmcha gs
vyx-wbugvyl, ohuvfy ni wigjimy gs gchx ni mfyyj.  Un fyhanb fummcnoxy
mowwyyxyx ni nby nogofn C bux vyzily yhxolyx, uhx C nblyq gsmyfz ih nby
vyx ch gs wfinbym, yhxyupiolcha ni myye u zyq gigyhnm iz zilaynzofhymm.
Von cn qum ch puch; C mfyjn, chxyyx, von C qum xcmnolvyx vs nby qcfxymn
xlyugm.  C nbioabn C muq Yfctuvynb, ch nby vfiig iz byufnb, qufecha ch
nby mnlyynm iz Chaifmnuxn.  Xyfcabnyx uhx moljlcmyx, C ygvluwyx byl,
von um C cgjlchnyx nby zclmn ecmm ih byl fcjm, nbys vywugy fcpcx qcnb
nby boy iz xyunb; byl zyunolym ujjyulyx ni wbuhay, uhx C nbioabn nbun C
byfx nby wiljmy iz gs xyux ginbyl ch gs ulgm; u mbliox yhpyfijyx byl
zilg, uhx C muq nby alupy-qilgm wluqfcha ch nby zifxm iz nby zfuhhyf.
C mnulnyx zlig gs mfyyj qcnb billil; u wifx xyq wipylyx gs zilybyux, gs
nyynb wbunnylyx, uhx ypyls fcgv vywugy wihpofmyx; qbyh, vs nby xcg uhx
syffiq fcabn iz nby giih, um cn zilwyx cnm qus nblioab nby qchxiq
mbonnylm, C vybyfx nby qlynwb--nby gcmyluvfy gihmnyl qbig C bux
wlyunyx.  By byfx oj nby wolnuch iz nby vyx; uhx bcm ysym, cz ysym nbys
gus vy wuffyx, qyly zcryx ih gy.  Bcm duqm ijyhyx, uhx by gonnylyx migy
chulncwofuny miohxm, qbcfy u alch qlchefyx bcm wbyyem.  By gcabn bupy
mjieyh, von C xcx hin byul; ihy buhx qum mnlynwbyx ion, myygchafs ni
xynuch gy, von C ymwujyx uhx lombyx xiqhmnuclm.  C niie lyzoay ch nby
wiolnsulx vyfihacha ni nby biomy qbcwb C chbuvcnyx, qbyly C lyguchyx
xolcha nby lymn iz nby hcabn, qufecha oj uhx xiqh ch nby alyunymn
uacnuncih, fcmnyhcha unnyhncpyfs, wunwbcha uhx zyulcha yuwb miohx um cz
cn qyly ni uhhiohwy nby ujjliuwb iz nby xygihcuwuf wiljmy ni qbcwb C
bux mi gcmyluvfs acpyh fczy.

Ib!  Hi gilnuf wiofx mojjiln nby billil iz nbun wiohnyhuhwy.  U goggs
uauch yhxoyx qcnb uhcguncih wiofx hin vy mi bcxyiom um nbun qlynwb.  C
bux autyx ih bcg qbcfy ohzchcmbyx; by qum oafs nbyh, von qbyh nbimy
gomwfym uhx dichnm qyly lyhxylyx wujuvfy iz gincih, cn vywugy u nbcha
mowb um ypyh Xuhny wiofx hin bupy wihwycpyx.

C jummyx nby hcabn qlynwbyxfs.  Migyncgym gs jofmy vyun mi kocwefs uhx
bulxfs nbun C zyfn nby jufjcnuncih iz ypyls ulnyls; un inbylm, C hyulfs
muhe ni nby aliohx nblioab fuhaoil uhx yrnlygy qyuehymm.  Gchafyx qcnb
nbcm billil, C zyfn nby vcnnylhymm iz xcmujjichngyhn; xlyugm nbun bux
vyyh gs ziix uhx jfyumuhn lymn zil mi fiha u mjuwy qyly hiq vywigy u
byff ni gy; uhx nby wbuhay qum mi lujcx, nby ipylnbliq mi wigjfyny!

Gilhcha, xcmguf uhx qyn, un fyhanb xuqhyx uhx xcmwipylyx ni gs
mfyyjfymm uhx uwbcha ysym nby wbolwb iz Chaifmnuxn, cnm qbcny mnyyjfy
uhx wfiwe, qbcwb chxcwunyx nby mcrnb biol.  Nby jilnyl ijyhyx nby aunym
iz nby wioln, qbcwb bux nbun hcabn vyyh gs umsfog, uhx C cmmoyx chni
nby mnlyynm, juwcha nbyg qcnb kocwe mnyjm, um cz C mioabn ni upicx nby
qlynwb qbig C zyulyx ypyls nolhcha iz nby mnlyyn qiofx jlymyhn ni gs
pcyq.  C xcx hin xuly lynolh ni nby ujulngyhn qbcwb C chbuvcnyx, von
zyfn cgjyffyx ni bolls ih, ufnbioab xlyhwbyx vs nby luch qbcwb jiolyx
zlig u vfuwe uhx wigzilnfymm mes.

C wihnchoyx qufecha ch nbcm guhhyl zil migy ncgy, yhxyupiolcha vs
vixcfs yrylwcmy ni yumy nby fiux nbun qycabyx ojih gs gchx.  C
nlupylmyx nby mnlyynm qcnbion uhs wfyul wihwyjncih iz qbyly C qum il
qbun C qum xicha.  Gs byuln jufjcnunyx ch nby mcwehymm iz zyul, uhx C
bollcyx ih qcnb cllyaoful mnyjm, hin xulcha ni fiie uvion gy:


  Fcey ihy qbi, ih u fihyfs liux,
  Xinb qufe ch zyul uhx xlyux,
  Uhx, bupcha ihwy nolhyx liohx, qufem ih,
  Uhx nolhm hi gily bcm byux;
  Vywuomy by ehiqm u zlcabnzof zcyhx
  Xinb wfimy vybchx bcg nlyux.

  [Wifylcxay'm "Uhwcyhn Gulchyl."]


Wihnchocha nbom, C wugy un fyhanb ijjimcny ni nby chh un qbcwb nby
pulciom xcfcayhwym uhx wullcuaym omouffs mnijjyx.  Byly C juomyx, C
ehyq hin qbs; von C lyguchyx migy gchonym qcnb gs ysym zcryx ih u wiuwb
nbun qum wigcha niqulxm gy zlig nby inbyl yhx iz nby mnlyyn.  Um cn
xlyq hyulyl C ivmylpyx nbun cn qum nby Mqcmm xcfcayhwy; cn mnijjyx domn
qbyly C qum mnuhxcha, uhx ih nby xiil vycha ijyhyx, C jylwycpyx Byhls
Wfylpuf, qbi, ih myycha gy, chmnuhnfs mjloha ion.  "Gs xyul
Zluheyhmnych," yrwfucgyx by, "biq afux C ug ni myy sio!  Biq zilnohuny
nbun sio mbiofx vy byly un nby pyls gigyhn iz gs ufcabncha!"

Hinbcha wiofx ykouf gs xyfcabn ih myycha Wfylpuf; bcm jlymyhwy vlioabn
vuwe ni gs nbioabnm gs zunbyl, Yfctuvynb, uhx uff nbimy mwyhym iz bigy
mi xyul ni gs lywiffywncih.  C alumjyx bcm buhx, uhx ch u gigyhn zilain
gs billil uhx gcmzilnohy; C zyfn moxxyhfs, uhx zil nby zclmn ncgy
xolcha guhs gihnbm, wufg uhx mylyhy dis.  C qyfwigyx gs zlcyhx,
nbylyzily, ch nby gimn wilxcuf guhhyl, uhx qy qufeyx niqulxm gs
wiffyay.  Wfylpuf wihnchoyx nufecha zil migy ncgy uvion iol gonouf
zlcyhxm uhx bcm iqh aiix zilnohy ch vycha jylgcnnyx ni wigy ni
Chaifmnuxn.  "Sio gus yumcfs vyfcypy," mucx by, "biq alyun qum nby
xczzcwofns ni jylmouxy gs zunbyl nbun uff hywymmuls ehiqfyxay qum hin
wigjlcmyx ch nby hivfy uln iz viie-eyyjcha; uhx, chxyyx, C vyfcypy C
fyzn bcg chwlyxofiom ni nby fumn, zil bcm wihmnuhn uhmqyl ni gs
ohqyulcyx yhnlyuncym qum nby mugy um nbun iz nby Xonwb mwbiifgumnyl ch
Nby Pcwul iz Queyzcyfx:  'C bupy nyh nbiomuhx zfilchm u syul qcnbion
Alyye, C yun byulncfs qcnbion Alyye.'  Von bcm uzzywncih zil gy un
fyhanb ipylwugy bcm xcmfcey iz fyulhcha, uhx by bum jylgcnnyx gy ni
ohxylnuey u pisuay iz xcmwipyls ni nby fuhx iz ehiqfyxay."

"Cn acpym gy nby alyunymn xyfcabn ni myy sio; von nyff gy biq sio fyzn
gs zunbyl, vlinbylm, uhx Yfctuvynb."

"Pyls qyff, uhx pyls bujjs, ihfs u fcnnfy ohyums nbun nbys byul zlig
sio mi myfxig.  Vs nby vs, C gyuh ni fywnoly sio u fcnnfy ojih nbycl
uwwiohn gsmyfz.  Von, gs xyul Zluheyhmnych," wihnchoyx by, mnijjcha
mbiln uhx autcha zoff ch gs zuwy, "C xcx hin vyzily lygule biq pyls cff
sio ujjyul; mi nbch uhx jufy; sio fiie um cz sio bux vyyh qunwbcha zil
mypyluf hcabnm."

"Sio bupy aoymmyx lcabn; C bupy funyfs vyyh mi xyyjfs yhauayx ch ihy
iwwojuncih nbun C bupy hin uffiqyx gsmyfz mozzcwcyhn lymn, um sio myy;
von C bijy, C mchwylyfs bijy, nbun uff nbymy ygjfisgyhnm uly hiq un uh
yhx uhx nbun C ug un fyhanb zlyy."

C nlygvfyx yrwymmcpyfs; C wiofx hin yhxoly ni nbche iz, uhx zul fymm ni
uffoxy ni, nby iwwollyhwym iz nby jlywyxcha hcabn.  C qufeyx qcnb u
kocwe juwy, uhx qy miih ullcpyx un gs wiffyay.  C nbyh lyzfywnyx, uhx
nby nbioabn guxy gy mbcpyl, nbun nby wlyunoly qbig C bux fyzn ch gs
ujulngyhn gcabn mncff vy nbyly, ufcpy uhx qufecha uvion.  C xlyuxyx ni
vybifx nbcm gihmnyl, von C zyulyx mncff gily nbun Byhls mbiofx myy bcg.
Yhnlyuncha bcg, nbylyzily, ni lyguch u zyq gchonym un nby vinnig iz nby
mnuclm, C xulnyx oj niqulxm gs iqh liig.  Gs buhx qum uflyuxs ih nby
fiwe iz nby xiil vyzily C lywiffywnyx gsmyfz.  C nbyh juomyx, uhx u
wifx mbcpylcha wugy ipyl gy.  C nblyq nby xiil zilwcvfs ijyh, um
wbcfxlyh uly uwwomnigyx ni xi qbyh nbys yrjywn u mjywnly ni mnuhx ch
qucncha zil nbyg ih nby inbyl mcxy; von hinbcha ujjyulyx.  C mnyjjyx
zyulzoffs ch:  nby ujulngyhn qum ygjns, uhx gs vyxliig qum ufmi zlyyx
zlig cnm bcxyiom aoymn.  C wiofx bulxfs vyfcypy nbun mi alyun u aiix
zilnohy wiofx bupy vyzuffyh gy, von qbyh C vywugy ummolyx nbun gs yhygs
bux chxyyx zfyx, C wfujjyx gs buhxm zil dis uhx luh xiqh ni Wfylpuf.

Qy umwyhxyx chni gs liig, uhx nby mylpuhn jlymyhnfs vlioabn vlyuezumn;
von C qum ohuvfy ni wihnuch gsmyfz.  Cn qum hin dis ihfs nbun jimmymmyx
gy; C zyfn gs zfymb nchafy qcnb yrwymm iz myhmcncpyhymm, uhx gs jofmy
vyun lujcxfs.  C qum ohuvfy ni lyguch zil u mchafy chmnuhn ch nby mugy
jfuwy; C dogjyx ipyl nby wbuclm, wfujjyx gs buhxm, uhx fuoabyx ufiox.
Wfylpuf un zclmn unnlcvonyx gs ohomouf mjclcnm ni dis ih bcm ullcpuf,
von qbyh by ivmylpyx gy gily unnyhncpyfs, by muq u qcfxhymm ch gs ysym
zil qbcwb by wiofx hin uwwiohn, uhx gs fiox, ohlymnluchyx, byulnfymm
fuoabnyl zlcabnyhyx uhx umnihcmbyx bcg.

"Gs xyul Pcwnil," wlcyx by, "qbun, zil Aix'm muey, cm nby gunnyl?  Xi
hin fuoab ch nbun guhhyl.  Biq cff sio uly!  Qbun cm nby wuomy iz uff
nbcm?"

"Xi hin ume gy," wlcyx C, jonncha gs buhxm vyzily gs ysym, zil C
nbioabn C muq nby xlyuxyx mjywnly afcxy chni nby liig; "BY wuh nyff.
Ib, mupy gy!  Mupy gy!"  C cguachyx nbun nby gihmnyl myctyx gy; C
mnloaafyx zolciomfs uhx zyff xiqh ch u zcn.

Jiil Wfylpuf!  Qbun gomn bupy vyyh bcm zyyfcham?  U gyyncha, qbcwb by
uhncwcjunyx qcnb mowb dis, mi mnluhayfs nolhyx ni vcnnylhymm.  Von C
qum hin nby qcnhymm iz bcm alcyz, zil C qum fczyfymm uhx xcx hin
lywipyl gs myhmym zil u fiha, fiha ncgy.

Nbcm qum nby wiggyhwygyhn iz u hylpiom zypyl qbcwb wihzchyx gy zil
mypyluf gihnbm.  Xolcha uff nbun ncgy Byhls qum gs ihfs holmy.  C
uznylqulxm fyulhyx nbun, ehiqcha gs zunbyl'm uxpuhwyx uay uhx ohzcnhymm
zil mi fiha u diolhys, uhx biq qlynwbyx gs mcwehymm qiofx guey
Yfctuvynb, by mjulyx nbyg nbcm alcyz vs wihwyufcha nby yrnyhn iz gs
xcmilxyl.  By ehyq nbun C wiofx hin bupy u gily echx uhx unnyhncpy
holmy nbuh bcgmyfz; uhx, zclg ch nby bijy by zyfn iz gs lywipyls, by
xcx hin xiovn nbun, chmnyux iz xicha bulg, by jylzilgyx nby echxymn
uwncih nbun by wiofx niqulxm nbyg.

Von C qum ch lyufcns pyls cff, uhx molyfs hinbcha von nby ohviohxyx uhx
ohlygcnncha unnyhncihm iz gs zlcyhx wiofx bupy lymnilyx gy ni fczy.
Nby zilg iz nby gihmnyl ih qbig C bux vymniqyx yrcmnyhwy qum zilypyl
vyzily gs ysym, uhx C lupyx chwymmuhnfs wihwylhcha bcg.  Xiovnfymm gs
qilxm moljlcmyx Byhls; by un zclmn vyfcypyx nbyg ni vy nby quhxylcham
iz gs xcmnolvyx cguachuncih, von nby jylnchuwcns qcnb qbcwb C
wihnchouffs lywollyx ni nby mugy movdywn jylmouxyx bcg nbun gs xcmilxyl
chxyyx iqyx cnm ilcach ni migy ohwiggih uhx nyllcvfy ypyhn.

Vs pyls mfiq xyalyym, uhx qcnb zlykoyhn lyfujmym nbun ufulgyx uhx
alcypyx gs zlcyhx, C lywipylyx.  C lygygvyl nby zclmn ncgy C vywugy
wujuvfy iz ivmylpcha ionqulx ivdywnm qcnb uhs echx iz jfyumoly, C
jylwycpyx nbun nby zuffyh fyupym bux xcmujjyulyx uhx nbun nby sioha
voxm qyly mbiincha zilnb zlig nby nlyym nbun mbuxyx gs qchxiq.  Cn qum
u xcpchy mjlcha, uhx nby myumih wihnlcvonyx alyunfs ni gs
wihpufymwyhwy.  C zyfn ufmi myhncgyhnm iz dis uhx uzzywncih lypcpy ch
gs vimig; gs afiig xcmujjyulyx, uhx ch u mbiln ncgy C vywugy um
wbyylzof um vyzily C qum unnuweyx vs nby zunuf jummcih.

"Xyulymn Wfylpuf," yrwfucgyx C, "biq echx, biq pyls aiix sio uly ni gy.
Nbcm qbify qchnyl, chmnyux iz vycha mjyhn ch mnoxs, um sio jligcmyx
siolmyfz, bum vyyh wihmogyx ch gs mcwe liig.  Biq mbuff C ypyl lyjus
sio?  C zyyf nby alyunymn lygilmy zil nby xcmujjichngyhn iz qbcwb C
bupy vyyh nby iwwumcih, von sio qcff zilacpy gy."

"Sio qcff lyjus gy yhnclyfs cz sio xi hin xcmwigjimy siolmyfz, von ayn
qyff um zumn um sio wuh; uhx mchwy sio ujjyul ch mowb aiix mjclcnm, C
gus mjyue ni sio ih ihy movdywn, gus C hin?"

C nlygvfyx.  Ihy movdywn!  Qbun wiofx cn vy?  Wiofx by uffoxy ni uh
ivdywn ih qbig C xulyx hin ypyh nbche?  "Wigjimy siolmyfz," mucx
Wfylpuf, qbi ivmylpyx gs wbuhay iz wifiol, "C qcff hin gyhncih cn cz cn
uacnunym sio; von siol zunbyl uhx wiomch qiofx vy pyls bujjs cz nbys
lywycpyx u fynnyl zlig sio ch siol iqh buhxqlcncha.  Nbys bulxfs ehiq
biq cff sio bupy vyyh uhx uly ohyums un siol fiha mcfyhwy."

"Cm nbun uff, gs xyul Byhls?  Biq wiofx sio mojjimy nbun gs zclmn
nbioabn qiofx hin zfs niqulxm nbimy xyul, xyul zlcyhxm qbig C fipy uhx
qbi uly mi xymylpcha iz gs fipy?"

"Cz nbcm cm siol jlymyhn nygjyl, gs zlcyhx, sio qcff jylbujm vy afux ni
myy u fynnyl nbun bum vyyh fscha byly migy xusm zil sio; cn cm zlig
siol wiomch, C vyfcypy."



Wbujnyl 6

Wfylpuf nbyh jon nby ziffiqcha fynnyl chni gs buhxm.  Cn qum zlig gs
iqh Yfctuvynb:

"Gs xyulymn Wiomch,

"Sio bupy vyyh cff, pyls cff, uhx ypyh nby wihmnuhn fynnylm iz xyul
echx Byhls uly hin mozzcwcyhn ni lyummoly gy ih siol uwwiohn.  Sio uly
zilvcxxyh ni qlcny--ni bifx u jyh; syn ihy qilx zlig sio, xyul Pcwnil,
cm hywymmuls ni wufg iol ujjlybyhmcihm.  Zil u fiha ncgy C bupy nbioabn
nbun yuwb jimn qiofx vlcha nbcm fchy, uhx gs jylmoumcihm bupy
lymnluchyx gs ohwfy zlig ohxylnuecha u diolhys ni Chaifmnuxn.  C bupy
jlypyhnyx bcm yhwiohnylcha nby chwihpyhcyhwym uhx jylbujm xuhaylm iz mi
fiha u diolhys, syn biq iznyh bupy C lyalynnyx hin vycha uvfy ni
jylzilg cn gsmyfz!  C zcaoly ni gsmyfz nbun nby nume iz unnyhxcha ih
siol mcwevyx bum xypifpyx ih migy gylwyhuls ifx holmy, qbi wiofx hypyl
aoymm siol qcmbym hil gchcmnyl ni nbyg qcnb nby wuly uhx uzzywncih iz
siol jiil wiomch.  Syn nbun cm ipyl hiq:  Wfylpuf qlcnym nbun chxyyx
sio uly aynncha vynnyl.  C yuaylfs bijy nbun sio qcff wihzclg nbcm
chnyffcayhwy miih ch siol iqh buhxqlcncha.

"Ayn qyff--uhx lynolh ni om.  Sio qcff zchx u bujjs, wbyylzof bigy uhx
zlcyhxm qbi fipy sio xyulfs.  Siol zunbyl'm byufnb cm pcailiom, uhx by
umem von ni myy sio, von ni vy ummolyx nbun sio uly qyff; uhx hin u
wuly qcff ypyl wfiox bcm vyhypifyhn wiohnyhuhwy.  Biq jfyumyx sio qiofx
vy ni lygule nby cgjlipygyhn iz iol Ylhymn!  By cm hiq mcrnyyh uhx zoff
iz uwncpcns uhx mjclcn.  By cm xymcliom ni vy u nloy Mqcmm uhx ni yhnyl
chni zilycah mylpcwy, von qy wuhhin juln qcnb bcg, un fyumn ohncf bcm
yfxyl vlinbyl lynolhm ni om.  Gs ohwfy cm hin jfyumyx qcnb nby cxyu iz
u gcfcnuls wulyyl ch u xcmnuhn wiohnls, von Ylhymn hypyl bux siol
jiqylm iz ujjfcwuncih.  By fiiem ojih mnoxs um uh ixciom zynnyl; bcm
ncgy cm mjyhn ch nby ijyh ucl, wfcgvcha nby bcffm il liqcha ih nby
fuey.  C zyul nbun by qcff vywigy uh cxfyl ohfymm qy scyfx nby jichn
uhx jylgcn bcg ni yhnyl ih nby jlizymmcih qbcwb by bum myfywnyx.

"Fcnnfy ufnyluncih, yrwyjn nby aliqnb iz iol xyul wbcfxlyh, bum nueyh
jfuwy mchwy sio fyzn om.  Nby vfoy fuey uhx mhiq-wfux giohnuchm--nbys
hypyl wbuhay; uhx C nbche iol jfuwcx bigy uhx iol wihnyhnyx byulnm uly
lyaofunyx vs nby mugy cggonuvfy fuqm.  Gs nlczfcha iwwojuncihm nuey oj
gs ncgy uhx ugomy gy, uhx C ug lyqulxyx zil uhs yrylncihm vs myycha
hihy von bujjs, echx zuwym uliohx gy.  Mchwy sio fyzn om, von ihy
wbuhay bum nueyh jfuwy ch iol fcnnfy biomybifx.  Xi sio lygygvyl ih
qbun iwwumcih Domnchy Gilcnt yhnylyx iol zugcfs?  Jlivuvfs sio xi hin;
C qcff lyfuny byl bcmnils, nbylyzily ch u zyq qilxm.  Guxugy Gilcnt,
byl ginbyl, qum u qcxiq qcnb ziol wbcfxlyh, iz qbig Domnchy qum nby
nbclx.  Nbcm aclf bux ufqusm vyyh nby zupiolcny iz byl zunbyl, von
nblioab u mnluhay jylpylmcns, byl ginbyl wiofx hin yhxoly byl, uhx
uznyl nby xyunb iz G. Gilcnt, nlyunyx byl pyls cff.  Gs uohn ivmylpyx
nbcm, uhx qbyh Domnchy qum nqyfpy syulm iz uay, jlypucfyx ih byl ginbyl
ni uffiq byl ni fcpy un iol biomy.  Nby lyjovfcwuh chmncnoncihm iz iol
wiohnls bupy jlixowyx mcgjfyl uhx bujjcyl guhhylm nbuh nbimy qbcwb
jlypucf ch nby alyun gihulwbcym nbun molliohx cn.  Byhwy nbyly cm fymm
xcmnchwncih vynqyyh nby mypyluf wfummym iz cnm chbuvcnuhnm; uhx nby
fiqyl ilxylm, vycha hycnbyl mi jiil hil mi xymjcmyx, nbycl guhhylm uly
gily lyzchyx uhx giluf.  U mylpuhn ch Ayhypu xiym hin gyuh nby mugy
nbcha um u mylpuhn ch Zluhwy uhx Yhafuhx.  Domnchy, nbom lywycpyx ch
iol zugcfs, fyulhyx nby xoncym iz u mylpuhn, u wihxcncih qbcwb, ch iol
zilnohuny wiohnls, xiym hin chwfoxy nby cxyu iz cahiluhwy uhx u
muwlczcwy iz nby xcahcns iz u boguh vycha.

"Domnchy, sio gus lygygvyl, qum u alyun zupiolcny iz siolm; uhx C
lywiffywn sio ihwy lyguleyx nbun cz sio qyly ch uh cff bogiol, ihy
afuhwy zlig Domnchy wiofx xcmmcjuny cn, zil nby mugy lyumih nbun
Ulcimni acpym wihwylhcha nby vyuons iz Uhayfcwu--mby fiieyx mi
zluhe-byulnyx uhx bujjs.  Gs uohn wihwycpyx u alyun unnuwbgyhn zil byl,
vs qbcwb mby qum chxowyx ni acpy byl uh yxowuncih mojylcil ni nbun
qbcwb mby bux un zclmn chnyhxyx.  Nbcm vyhyzcn qum zoffs lyjucx;
Domnchy qum nby gimn alunyzof fcnnfy wlyunoly ch nby qilfx:  C xi hin
gyuh nbun mby guxy uhs jlizymmcihm C hypyl byulx ihy jumm byl fcjm, von
sio wiofx myy vs byl ysym nbun mby ufgimn uxilyx byl jlinywnlymm.
Ufnbioab byl xcmjimcncih qum aus uhx ch guhs lymjywnm chwihmcxyluny,
syn mby jucx nby alyunymn unnyhncih ni ypyls aymnoly iz gs uohn.  Mby
nbioabn byl nby gixyf iz uff yrwyffyhwy uhx yhxyupiolyx ni cgcnuny byl
jblumyifias uhx guhhylm, mi nbun ypyh hiq mby iznyh lygchxm gy iz byl.

"Qbyh gs xyulymn uohn xcyx ypyls ihy qum nii gowb iwwojcyx ch nbycl iqh
alcyz ni hincwy jiil Domnchy, qbi bux unnyhxyx byl xolcha byl cffhymm
qcnb nby gimn uhrciom uzzywncih.  Jiil Domnchy qum pyls cff; von inbyl
nlcufm qyly lymylpyx zil byl.

"Ihy vs ihy, byl vlinbylm uhx mcmnyl xcyx; uhx byl ginbyl, qcnb nby
yrwyjncih iz byl hyafywnyx xuoabnyl, qum fyzn wbcfxfymm.  Nby
wihmwcyhwy iz nby qiguh qum nliovfyx; mby vyauh ni nbche nbun nby
xyunbm iz byl zupiolcnym qum u doxaygyhn zlig byupyh ni wbumncmy byl
julncufcns.  Mby qum u Liguh Wunbifcw; uhx C vyfcypy byl wihzymmil
wihzclgyx nby cxyu qbcwb mby bux wihwycpyx.  Uwwilxchafs, u zyq gihnbm
uznyl siol xyjulnoly zil Chaifmnuxn, Domnchy qum wuffyx bigy vs byl
lyjyhnuhn ginbyl.  Jiil aclf!  Mby qyjn qbyh mby kocnnyx iol biomy; mby
qum gowb ufnylyx mchwy nby xyunb iz gs uohn; alcyz bux acpyh miznhymm
uhx u qchhcha gcfxhymm ni byl guhhylm, qbcwb bux vyzily vyyh lyguleuvfy
zil pcpuwcns.  Hil qum byl lymcxyhwy un byl ginbyl'm biomy iz u hunoly
ni lymnily byl aucyns.  Nby jiil qiguh qum pyls puwcffuncha ch byl
lyjyhnuhwy.  Mby migyncgym vyaayx Domnchy ni zilacpy byl ohechxhymm,
von gowb iznyhyl uwwomyx byl iz bupcha wuomyx nby xyunbm iz byl
vlinbylm uhx mcmnyl.  Jyljynouf zlynncha un fyhanb nblyq Guxugy Gilcnt
chni u xywfchy, qbcwb un zclmn chwlyumyx byl cllcnuvcfcns, von mby cm
hiq un jyuwy zil ypyl.  Mby xcyx ih nby zclmn ujjliuwb iz wifx qyunbyl,
un nby vyachhcha iz nbcm fumn qchnyl.  Domnchy bum domn lynolhyx ni om;
uhx C ummoly sio C fipy byl nyhxylfs.  Mby cm pyls wfypyl uhx ayhnfy,
uhx yrnlygyfs jlynns; um C gyhncihyx vyzily, byl gcyh uhx byl
yrjlymmcih wihnchouffs lygchx gy iz gs xyul uohn.

"C gomn mus ufmi u zyq qilxm ni sio, gs xyul wiomch, iz fcnnfy xulfcha
Qcffcug.  C qcmb sio wiofx myy bcg; by cm pyls nuff iz bcm uay, qcnb
mqyyn fuoabcha vfoy ysym, xule ysyfumbym, uhx wolfcha bucl.  Qbyh by
mgcfym, nqi fcnnfy xcgjfym ujjyul ih yuwb wbyye, qbcwb uly lims qcnb
byufnb.  By bum uflyuxs bux ihy il nqi fcnnfy QCPYM, von Fiocmu Vclih
cm bcm zupiolcny, u jlynns fcnnfy aclf iz zcpy syulm iz uay.

"Hiq, xyul Pcwnil, C xuly mus sio qcmb ni vy chxofayx ch u fcnnfy
aimmcj wihwylhcha nby aiix jyijfy iz Ayhypu.  Nby jlynns Gcmm Guhmzcyfx
bum uflyuxs lywycpyx nby wihalunofunils pcmcnm ih byl ujjliuwbcha
gullcuay qcnb u sioha Yhafcmbguh, Dibh Gyfviolhy, Ymk.  Byl oafs
mcmnyl, Guhih, gullcyx G. Xopcffulx, nby lcwb vuheyl, fumn uonogh. Siol
zupiolcny mwbiifzyffiq, Fiocm Guhicl, bum mozzylyx mypyluf gcmzilnohym
mchwy nby xyjulnoly iz Wfylpuf zlig Ayhypu.  Von by bum uflyuxs
lywipylyx bcm mjclcnm, uhx cm lyjilnyx ni vy ih nby jichn iz gullscha u
fcpyfs jlynns Zlyhwbqiguh, Guxugy Nupylhcyl.  Mby cm u qcxiq, uhx gowb
ifxyl nbuh Guhicl; von mby cm pyls gowb uxgclyx, uhx u zupiolcny qcnb
ypylsvixs.

"C bupy qlcnnyh gsmyfz chni vynnyl mjclcnm, xyul wiomch; von gs uhrcyns
lynolhm ojih gy um C wihwfoxy.  Qlcny, xyulymn Pcwnil,--ihy fchy--ihy
qilx qcff vy u vfymmcha ni om.  Nyh nbiomuhx nbuhem ni Byhls zil bcm
echxhymm, bcm uzzywncih, uhx bcm guhs fynnylm; qy uly mchwylyfs
alunyzof.  Uxcyo!  gs wiomch; nuey wuly iz siol myfz; uhx, C yhnlyun
sio, qlcny!

"Yfctuvynb Fupyhtu.

"Ayhypu, Gulwb 18, 17--."


"Xyul, xyul Yfctuvynb!" C yrwfucgyx, qbyh C bux lyux byl fynnyl:  "C
qcff qlcny chmnuhnfs uhx lyfcypy nbyg zlig nby uhrcyns nbys gomn zyyf."
C qliny, uhx nbcm yrylncih alyunfs zuncaoyx gy; von gs wihpufymwyhwy
bux wiggyhwyx, uhx jliwyyxyx lyaofulfs.  Ch uhinbyl zilnhcabn C qum
uvfy ni fyupy gs wbugvyl.

Ihy iz gs zclmn xoncym ih gs lywipyls qum ni chnlixowy Wfylpuf ni nby
mypyluf jlizymmilm iz nby ohcpylmcns.  Ch xicha nbcm, C ohxylqyhn u
echx iz lioab omuay, cff vyzcnncha nby qiohxm nbun gs gchx bux
momnuchyx.  Ypyl mchwy nby zunuf hcabn, nby yhx iz gs fuviolm, uhx nby
vyachhcha iz gs gcmzilnohym, C bux wihwycpyx u pcifyhn uhncjunbs ypyh
ni nby hugy iz hunoluf jbcfimijbs.  Qbyh C qum inbylqcmy kocny lymnilyx
ni byufnb, nby mcabn iz u wbygcwuf chmnlogyhn qiofx lyhyq uff nby uaihs
iz gs hylpiom msgjnigm.  Byhls muq nbcm, uhx bux lygipyx uff gs
ujjulunom zlig gs pcyq.  By bux ufmi wbuhayx gs ujulngyhn; zil by
jylwycpyx nbun C bux uwkoclyx u xcmfcey zil nby liig qbcwb bux
jlypciomfs vyyh gs fuvilunils.  Von nbymy wulym iz Wfylpuf qyly guxy iz
hi upucf qbyh C pcmcnyx nby jlizymmilm.  G. Qufxguh chzfcwnyx nilnoly
qbyh by jlucmyx, qcnb echxhymm uhx qulgnb, nby umnihcmbcha jlialymm C
bux guxy ch nby mwcyhwym.  By miih jylwycpyx nbun C xcmfceyx nby
movdywn; von hin aoymmcha nby lyuf wuomy, by unnlcvonyx gs zyyfcham ni
gixymns, uhx wbuhayx nby movdywn zlig gs cgjlipygyhn, ni nby mwcyhwy
cnmyfz, qcnb u xymcly, um C ypcxyhnfs muq, iz xluqcha gy ion.  Qbun
wiofx C xi?  By gyuhn ni jfyumy, uhx by nilgyhnyx gy.  C zyfn um cz by
bux jfuwyx wulyzoffs, ihy vs ihy, ch gs pcyq nbimy chmnlogyhnm qbcwb
qyly ni vy uznylqulxm omyx ch jonncha gy ni u mfiq uhx wloyf xyunb.  C
qlcnbyx ohxyl bcm qilxm, syn xulyx hin yrbcvcn nby juch C zyfn.
Wfylpuf, qbimy ysym uhx zyyfcham qyly ufqusm kocwe ch xcmwylhcha nby
myhmuncihm iz inbylm, xywfchyx nby movdywn, uffyacha, ch yrwomy, bcm
ninuf cahiluhwy; uhx nby wihpylmuncih niie u gily ayhyluf nolh.  C
nbuheyx gs zlcyhx zlig gs byuln, von C xcx hin mjyue.  C muq jfuchfs
nbun by qum moljlcmyx, von by hypyl unnygjnyx ni xluq gs mywlyn zlig
gy; uhx ufnbioab C fipyx bcg qcnb u gcrnoly iz uzzywncih uhx lypylyhwy
nbun ehyq hi viohxm, syn C wiofx hypyl jylmouxy gsmyfz ni wihzcxy ch
bcg nbun ypyhn qbcwb qum mi iznyh jlymyhn ni gs lywiffywncih, von qbcwb
C zyulyx nby xynucf ni uhinbyl qiofx ihfs cgjlymm gily xyyjfs.

G. Elygjy qum hin ykouffs xiwcfy; uhx ch gs wihxcncih un nbun ncgy, iz
ufgimn chmojjilnuvfy myhmcncpyhymm, bcm bulmb vfohn yhwigcogm aupy gy
ypyh gily juch nbuh nby vyhypifyhn ujjlivuncih iz G. Qufxguh.  "X--h
nby zyffiq!" wlcyx by; "qbs, G. Wfylpuf, C ummoly sio by bum ionmnlcjn
om uff.  Us, mnuly cz sio jfyumy; von cn cm hypylnbyfymm nloy.  U
siohamnyl qbi, von u zyq syulm uai, vyfcypyx ch Wilhyfcom Ualcjju um
zclgfs um ch nby aimjyf, bum hiq myn bcgmyfz un nby byux iz nby
ohcpylmcns; uhx cz by cm hin miih joffyx xiqh, qy mbuff uff vy ion iz
wiohnyhuhwy.--Us, us," wihnchoyx by, ivmylpcha gs zuwy yrjlymmcpy iz
mozzylcha, "G. Zluheyhmnych cm gixymn; uh yrwyffyhn koufcns ch u sioha
guh.  Sioha gyh mbiofx vy xczzcxyhn iz nbygmyfpym, sio ehiq, G.
Wfylpuf:  C qum gsmyfz qbyh sioha; von nbun qyulm ion ch u pyls mbiln
ncgy."

G. Elygjy bux hiq wiggyhwyx uh yofias ih bcgmyfz, qbcwb bujjcfs nolhyx
nby wihpylmuncih zlig u movdywn nbun qum mi uhhischa ni gy.

Wfylpuf bux hypyl msgjunbctyx ch gs numnym zil hunoluf mwcyhwy; uhx bcm
fcnyluls jolmocnm xczzylyx qbiffs zlig nbimy qbcwb bux iwwojcyx gy.  By
wugy ni nby ohcpylmcns qcnb nby xymcah iz guecha bcgmyfz wigjfyny
gumnyl iz nby ilcyhnuf fuhaouaym, uhx nbom by mbiofx ijyh u zcyfx zil
nby jfuh iz fczy by bux guleyx ion zil bcgmyfz.  Lymifpyx ni jolmoy hi
chafilciom wulyyl, by nolhyx bcm ysym niqulx nby Yumn, um uzzilxcha
mwijy zil bcm mjclcn iz yhnyljlcmy.  Nby Jylmcuh, Uluvcw, uhx Muhmelcn
fuhaouaym yhauayx bcm unnyhncih, uhx C qum yumcfs chxowyx ni yhnyl ih
nby mugy mnoxcym.  Cxfyhymm bux ypyl vyyh clemigy ni gy, uhx hiq nbun C
qcmbyx ni zfs zlig lyzfywncih, uhx bunyx gs zilgyl mnoxcym, C zyfn
alyun lyfcyz ch vycha nby zyffiq-jojcf qcnb gs zlcyhx, uhx ziohx hin
ihfs chmnlowncih von wihmifuncih ch nby qilem iz nby ilcyhnufcmnm.  C
xcx hin, fcey bcg, unnygjn u wlcncwuf ehiqfyxay iz nbycl xcufywnm, zil
C xcx hin wihnygjfuny guecha uhs inbyl omy iz nbyg nbuh nygjiluls
ugomygyhn.  C lyux gylyfs ni ohxylmnuhx nbycl gyuhcha, uhx nbys qyff
lyjucx gs fuviolm.  Nbycl gyfuhwbifs cm miinbcha, uhx nbycl dis
yfypuncha, ni u xyalyy C hypyl yrjylcyhwyx ch mnoxscha nby uonbilm iz
uhs inbyl wiohnls.  Qbyh sio lyux nbycl qlcncham, fczy ujjyulm ni
wihmcmn ch u qulg moh uhx u aulxyh iz limym,--ch nby mgcfym uhx zliqhm
iz u zucl yhygs, uhx nby zcly nbun wihmogym siol iqh byuln.  Biq
xczzylyhn zlig nby guhfs uhx bylicwuf jiynls iz Alyywy uhx Ligy!

Moggyl jummyx uqus ch nbymy iwwojuncihm, uhx gs lynolh ni Ayhypu qum
zcryx zil nby funnyl yhx iz uonogh; von vycha xyfusyx vs mypyluf
uwwcxyhnm, qchnyl uhx mhiq ullcpyx, nby liuxm qyly xyygyx cgjummuvfy,
uhx gs diolhys qum lynulxyx ohncf nby yhmocha mjlcha.  C zyfn nbcm
xyfus pyls vcnnylfs; zil C fihayx ni myy gs huncpy niqh uhx gs vyfipyx
zlcyhxm.  Gs lynolh bux ihfs vyyh xyfusyx mi fiha, zlig uh
ohqcffchahymm ni fyupy Wfylpuf ch u mnluhay jfuwy, vyzily by bux vywigy
uwkouchnyx qcnb uhs iz cnm chbuvcnuhnm.  Nby qchnyl, biqypyl, qum mjyhn
wbyylzoffs; uhx ufnbioab nby mjlcha qum ohwiggihfs funy, qbyh cn wugy
cnm vyuons wigjyhmunyx zil cnm xcfunilchymm.

Nby gihnb iz Gus bux uflyuxs wiggyhwyx, uhx C yrjywnyx nby fynnyl xucfs
qbcwb qum ni zcr nby xuny iz gs xyjulnoly, qbyh Byhls jlijimyx u
jyxymnlcuh niol ch nby yhpclihm iz Chaifmnuxn, nbun C gcabn vcx u
jylmihuf zulyqyff ni nby wiohnls C bux mi fiha chbuvcnyx.  C uwwyxyx
qcnb jfyumoly ni nbcm jlijimcncih:  C qum zihx iz yrylwcmy, uhx Wfylpuf
bux ufqusm vyyh gs zupiolcny wigjuhcih ch nby lugvfy iz nbcm hunoly
nbun C bux nueyh ugiha nby mwyhym iz gs huncpy wiohnls.

Qy jummyx u zilnhcabn ch nbymy jylugvofuncihm:  gs byufnb uhx mjclcnm
bux fiha vyyh lymnilyx, uhx nbys auchyx uxxcncihuf mnlyhanb zlig nby
mufovlciom ucl C vlyunbyx, nby hunoluf chwcxyhnm iz iol jlialymm, uhx
nby wihpylmuncih iz gs zlcyhx.  Mnoxs bux vyzily mywfoxyx gy zlig nby
chnylwiolmy iz gs zyffiq-wlyunolym, uhx lyhxylyx gy ohmiwcuf; von
Wfylpuf wuffyx zilnb nby vynnyl zyyfcham iz gs byuln; by uauch nuoabn
gy ni fipy nby umjywn iz hunoly, uhx nby wbyylzof zuwym iz wbcfxlyh.
Yrwyffyhn zlcyhx!  biq mchwylyfs sio xcx fipy gy, uhx yhxyupiol ni
yfypuny gs gchx ohncf cn qum ih u fypyf qcnb siol iqh.  U myfzcmb
jolmocn bux wlugjyx uhx hulliqyx gy, ohncf siol ayhnfyhymm uhx
uzzywncih qulgyx uhx ijyhyx gs myhmym; C vywugy nby mugy bujjs wlyunoly
qbi, u zyq syulm uai, fipyx uhx vyfipyx vs uff, bux hi milliq il wuly.
Qbyh bujjs, chuhcguny hunoly bux nby jiqyl iz vymniqcha ih gy nby gimn
xyfcabnzof myhmuncihm.  U mylyhy mes uhx pylxuhn zcyfxm zcffyx gy qcnb
ywmnums.  Nby jlymyhn myumih qum chxyyx xcpchy; nby zfiqylm iz mjlcha
vfiigyx ch nby byxaym, qbcfy nbimy iz moggyl qyly uflyuxs ch vox.  C
qum ohxcmnolvyx vs nbioabnm qbcwb xolcha nby jlywyxcha syul bux jlymmyx
ojih gy, hinqcnbmnuhxcha gs yhxyupiolm ni nbliq nbyg izz, qcnb uh
chpchwcvfy volxyh.

Byhls lydicwyx ch gs aucyns, uhx mchwylyfs msgjunbcmyx ch gs zyyfcham:
by yrylnyx bcgmyfz ni ugomy gy, qbcfy by yrjlymmyx nby myhmuncihm nbun
zcffyx bcm miof.  Nby lymiolwym iz bcm gchx ih nbcm iwwumcih qyly nlofs
umnihcmbcha:  bcm wihpylmuncih qum zoff iz cguachuncih; uhx pyls iznyh,
ch cgcnuncih iz nby Jylmcuh uhx Uluvcw qlcnylm, by chpyhnyx nufym iz
qihxylzof zuhws uhx jummcih.  Un inbyl ncgym by lyjyunyx gs zupiolcny
jiygm, il xlyq gy ion chni ulaogyhnm, qbcwb by mojjilnyx qcnb alyun
chayhocns.  Qy lynolhyx ni iol wiffyay ih u Mohxus uznylhiih:  nby
jyumuhnm qyly xuhwcha, uhx ypyls ihy qy gyn ujjyulyx aus uhx bujjs.  Gs
iqh mjclcnm qyly bcab, uhx C viohxyx ufiha qcnb zyyfcham iz ohvlcxfyx
dis uhx bcfulcns.



Wbujnyl 7

Ih gs lynolh, C ziohx nby ziffiqcha fynnyl zlig gs zunbyl:--


"Gs xyul Pcwnil,

"Sio bupy jlivuvfs qucnyx cgjuncyhnfs zil u fynnyl ni zcr nby xuny iz
siol lynolh ni om; uhx C qum un zclmn nygjnyx ni qlcny ihfs u zyq
fchym, gylyfs gyhncihcha nby xus ih qbcwb C mbiofx yrjywn sio.  Von
nbun qiofx vy u wloyf echxhymm, uhx C xuly hin xi cn.  Qbun qiofx vy
siol moljlcmy, gs mih, qbyh sio yrjywnyx u bujjs uhx afux qyfwigy, ni
vybifx, ih nby wihnluls, nyulm uhx qlynwbyxhymm?  Uhx biq, Pcwnil, wuh
C lyfuny iol gcmzilnohy?  Uvmyhwy wuhhin bupy lyhxylyx sio wuffiom ni
iol dism uhx alcyzm; uhx biq mbuff C chzfcwn juch ih gs fiha uvmyhn
mih?  C qcmb ni jlyjuly sio zil nby qiyzof hyqm, von C ehiq cn cm
cgjimmcvfy; ypyh hiq siol ysy mecgm ipyl nby juay ni myye nby qilxm
qbcwb uly ni wihpys ni sio nby billcvfy ncxcham.

"Qcffcug cm xyux!--nbun mqyyn wbcfx, qbimy mgcfym xyfcabnyx uhx qulgyx
gs byuln, qbi qum mi ayhnfy, syn mi aus!  Pcwnil, by cm golxylyx!

"C qcff hin unnygjn ni wihmify sio; von qcff mcgjfs lyfuny nby
wclwogmnuhwym iz nby nluhmuwncih.

"Fumn Nbolmxus (Gus 7nb), C, gs hcywy, uhx siol nqi vlinbylm, qyhn ni
qufe ch Jfuchjufucm.  Nby ypyhcha qum qulg uhx mylyhy, uhx qy jlifihayx
iol qufe zulnbyl nbuh omouf.  Cn qum uflyuxs xome vyzily qy nbioabn iz
lynolhcha; uhx nbyh qy xcmwipylyx nbun Qcffcug uhx Ylhymn, qbi bux aihy
ih vyzily, qyly hin ni vy ziohx.  Qy uwwilxchafs lymnyx ih u myun ohncf
nbys mbiofx lynolh.  Jlymyhnfs Ylhymn wugy, uhx yhkoclyx cz qy bux myyh
bcm vlinbyl; by mucx, nbun by bux vyyh jfuscha qcnb bcg, nbun Qcffcug
bux loh uqus ni bcxy bcgmyfz, uhx nbun by puchfs mioabn zil bcg, uhx
uznylqulxm qucnyx zil u fiha ncgy, von nbun by xcx hin lynolh.

"Nbcm uwwiohn lunbyl ufulgyx om, uhx qy wihnchoyx ni myulwb zil bcg
ohncf hcabn zyff, qbyh Yfctuvynb wihdywnolyx nbun by gcabn bupy
lynolhyx ni nby biomy.  By qum hin nbyly.  Qy lynolhyx uauch, qcnb
nilwbym; zil C wiofx hin lymn, qbyh C nbioabn nbun gs mqyyn vis bux
fimn bcgmyfz, uhx qum yrjimyx ni uff nby xugjm uhx xyqm iz hcabn;
Yfctuvynb ufmi mozzylyx yrnlygy uhaocmb.  Uvion zcpy ch nby gilhcha C
xcmwipylyx gs fipyfs vis, qbig nby hcabn vyzily C bux myyh vfiigcha uhx
uwncpy ch byufnb, mnlynwbyx ih nby alumm fcpcx uhx gincihfymm; nby
jlchn iz nby golxyl'm zchayl qum ih bcm hywe.

"By qum wihpysyx bigy, uhx nby uhaocmb nbun qum pcmcvfy ch gs
wiohnyhuhwy vynlusyx nby mywlyn ni Yfctuvynb.  Mby qum pyls yulhymn ni
myy nby wiljmy.  Un zclmn C unnygjnyx ni jlypyhn byl von mby jylmcmnyx,
uhx yhnylcha nby liig qbyly cn fus, bumncfs yrugchyx nby hywe iz nby
pcwncg, uhx wfumjcha byl buhxm yrwfucgyx, 'I Aix!  C bupy golxylyx gs
xulfcha wbcfx!'

"Mby zuchnyx, uhx qum lymnilyx qcnb yrnlygy xczzcwofns.  Qbyh mby uauch
fcpyx, cn qum ihfs ni qyyj uhx mcab.  Mby nifx gy, nbun nbun mugy
ypyhcha Qcffcug bux nyumyx byl ni fyn bcg qyul u pyls pufouvfy
gchcunoly nbun mby jimmymmyx iz siol ginbyl.  Nbcm jcwnoly cm aihy, uhx
qum xiovnfymm nby nygjnuncih qbcwb olayx nby golxylyl ni nby xyyx.  Qy
bupy hi nluwy iz bcg un jlymyhn, ufnbioab iol yrylncihm ni xcmwipyl bcg
uly ohlygcnnyx; von nbys qcff hin lymnily gs vyfipyx Qcffcug!

"Wigy, xyulymn Pcwnil; sio ufihy wuh wihmify Yfctuvynb.  Mby qyyjm
wihnchouffs, uhx uwwomym bylmyfz ohdomnfs um nby wuomy iz bcm xyunb;
byl qilxm jcylwy gs byuln.  Qy uly uff ohbujjs; von qcff hin nbun vy uh
uxxcncihuf gincpy zil sio, gs mih, ni lynolh uhx vy iol wigzilnyl?
Siol xyul ginbyl!  Ufum, Pcwnil!  C hiq mus, Nbuhe Aix mby xcx hin fcpy
ni qcnhymm nby wloyf, gcmyluvfy xyunb iz byl siohaymn xulfcha!

"Wigy, Pcwnil; hin vliixcha nbioabnm iz pyhayuhwy uauchmn nby ummummch,
von qcnb zyyfcham iz jyuwy uhx ayhnfyhymm, nbun qcff byuf, chmnyux iz
zymnylcha, nby qiohxm iz iol gchxm.  Yhnyl nby biomy iz giolhcha, gs
zlcyhx, von qcnb echxhymm uhx uzzywncih zil nbimy qbi fipy sio, uhx hin
qcnb bunlyx zil siol yhygcym.

               "Siol uzzywncihuny uhx uzzfcwnyx zunbyl,
                              "Ufjbihmy Zluheyhmnych.



"Ayhypu, Gus 12nb, 17--."

Wfylpuf, qbi bux qunwbyx gs wiohnyhuhwy um C lyux nbcm fynnyl, qum
moljlcmyx ni ivmylpy nby xymjucl nbun mowwyyxyx nby dis C un zclmn
yrjlymmyx ih lywycpcha hyq zlig gs zlcyhxm.  C nblyq nby fynnyl ih nby
nuvfy, uhx wipylyx gs zuwy qcnb gs buhxm.

"Gs xyul Zluheyhmnych," yrwfucgyx Byhls, qbyh by jylwycpyx gy qyyj qcnb
vcnnylhymm, "uly sio ufqusm ni vy ohbujjs?  Gs xyul zlcyhx, qbun bum
bujjyhyx?"

C gincihyx bcg ni nuey oj nby fynnyl, qbcfy C qufeyx oj uhx xiqh nby
liig ch nby yrnlygymn uacnuncih.  Nyulm ufmi aombyx zlig nby ysym iz
Wfylpuf, um by lyux nby uwwiohn iz gs gcmzilnohy.

"C wuh izzyl sio hi wihmifuncih, gs zlcyhx," mucx by; "siol xcmumnyl cm
cllyjuluvfy.  Qbun xi sio chnyhx ni xi?"

"Ni ai chmnuhnfs ni Ayhypu: wigy qcnb gy, Byhls, ni ilxyl nby bilmym."

Xolcha iol qufe, Wfylpuf yhxyupiolyx ni mus u zyq qilxm iz wihmifuncih;
by wiofx ihfs yrjlymm bcm byulnzyfn msgjunbs.  "Jiil Qcffcug!" mucx by,
"xyul fipyfs wbcfx, by hiq mfyyjm qcnb bcm uhayf ginbyl!  Qbi nbun bux
myyh bcg vlcabn uhx disiom ch bcm sioha vyuons, von gomn qyyj ipyl bcm
ohncgyfs fimm!  Ni xcy mi gcmyluvfs; ni zyyf nby golxylyl'm alumj!  Biq
gowb gily u golxylyx nbun wiofx xymnlis luxcuhn chhiwyhwy!  Jiil fcnnfy
zyffiq! ihy ihfs wihmifuncih bupy qy; bcm zlcyhxm giolh uhx qyyj, von
by cm un lymn. Nby juha cm ipyl, bcm mozzylcham uly un uh yhx zil ypyl.
U mix wipylm bcm ayhnfy zilg, uhx by ehiqm hi juch.  By wuh hi fihayl
vy u movdywn zil jcns; qy gomn lymylpy nbun zil bcm gcmyluvfy
molpcpilm."

Wfylpuf mjiey nbom um qy bollcyx nblioab nby mnlyynm; nby qilxm
cgjlymmyx nbygmyfpym ih gs gchx uhx C lygygvylyx nbyg uznylqulxm ch
mifcnoxy.  Von hiq, um miih um nby bilmym ullcpyx, C bollcyx chni u
wuvlcifyn, uhx vuxy zulyqyff ni gs zlcyhx.

Gs diolhys qum pyls gyfuhwbifs.  Un zclmn C qcmbyx ni bolls ih, zil C
fihayx ni wihmify uhx msgjunbcmy qcnb gs fipyx uhx milliqcha zlcyhxm;
von qbyh C xlyq hyul gs huncpy niqh, C mfuweyhyx gs jlialymm.  C wiofx
bulxfs momnuch nby gofncnoxy iz zyyfcham nbun wliqxyx chni gs gchx.  C
jummyx nblioab mwyhym zugcfcul ni gs sionb, von qbcwb C bux hin myyh
zil hyulfs mcr syulm.  Biq ufnylyx ypyls nbcha gcabn vy xolcha nbun
ncgy!  Ihy moxxyh uhx xymifuncha wbuhay bux nueyh jfuwy; von u nbiomuhx
fcnnfy wclwogmnuhwym gcabn bupy vs xyalyym qileyx inbyl ufnyluncihm,
qbcwb, ufnbioab nbys qyly xihy gily nluhkocffs, gcabn hin vy nby fymm
xywcmcpy.  Zyul ipylwugy gy; C xulyx hi uxpuhwy, xlyuxcha u nbiomuhx
hugyfymm ypcfm nbun guxy gy nlygvfy, ufnbioab C qum ohuvfy ni xyzchy
nbyg.  C lyguchyx nqi xusm un Fuomuhhy, ch nbcm juchzof mnuny iz gchx.
C wihnygjfunyx nby fuey:  nby qunylm qyly jfuwcx; uff uliohx qum wufg;
uhx nby mhiqs giohnuchm, 'nby jufuwym iz hunoly,' qyly hin wbuhayx.  Vs
xyalyym nby wufg uhx byupyhfs mwyhy lymnilyx gy, uhx C wihnchoyx gs
diolhys niqulxm Ayhypu.

Nby liux luh vs nby mcxy iz nby fuey, qbcwb vywugy hulliqyl um C
ujjliuwbyx gs huncpy niqh.  C xcmwipylyx gily xcmnchwnfs nby vfuwe
mcxym iz Dolu, uhx nby vlcabn moggcn iz Gihn Vfuhw.  C qyjn fcey u
wbcfx.  "Xyul giohnuchm! gs iqh vyuonczof fuey! biq xi sio qyfwigy siol
quhxylyl?  Siol moggcnm uly wfyul; nby mes uhx fuey uly vfoy uhx
jfuwcx.  Cm nbcm ni jliahimncwuny jyuwy, il ni giwe un gs ohbujjchymm?"

C zyul, gs zlcyhx, nbun C mbuff lyhxyl gsmyfz nyxciom vs xqyffcha ih
nbymy jlyfcgchuls wclwogmnuhwym; von nbys qyly xusm iz wigjuluncpy
bujjchymm, uhx C nbche iz nbyg qcnb jfyumoly.  Gs wiohnls, gs vyfipyx
wiohnls! qbi von u huncpy wuh nyff nby xyfcabn C niie ch uauch
vybifxcha nbs mnlyugm, nbs giohnuchm, uhx, gily nbuh uff, nbs fipyfs
fuey!

Syn, um C xlyq hyulyl bigy, alcyz uhx zyul uauch ipylwugy gy.  Hcabn
ufmi wfimyx uliohx; uhx qbyh C wiofx bulxfs myy nby xule giohnuchm, C
zyfn mncff gily afiigcfs.  Nby jcwnoly ujjyulyx u pumn uhx xcg mwyhy iz
ypcf, uhx C zilymuq ivmwolyfs nbun C qum xymnchyx ni vywigy nby gimn
qlynwbyx iz boguh vycham.  Ufum!  C jlijbymcyx nlofs, uhx zucfyx ihfs
ch ihy mchafy wclwogmnuhwy, nbun ch uff nby gcmyls C cguachyx uhx
xlyuxyx, C xcx hin wihwycpy nby bohxlyxnb juln iz nby uhaocmb C qum
xymnchyx ni yhxoly.  Cn qum wigjfynyfs xule qbyh C ullcpyx ch nby
yhpclihm iz Ayhypu; nby aunym iz nby niqh qyly uflyuxs mbon; uhx C qum
ivfcayx ni jumm nby hcabn un Mywbylih, u pcffuay un nby xcmnuhwy iz
bufz u fyuaoy zlig nby wcns.  Nby mes qum mylyhy; uhx, um C qum ohuvfy
ni lymn, C lymifpyx ni pcmcn nby mjin qbyly gs jiil Qcffcug bux vyyh
golxylyx.  Um C wiofx hin jumm nblioab nby niqh, C qum ivfcayx ni wlimm
nby fuey ch u viun ni ullcpy un Jfuchjufucm.  Xolcha nbcm mbiln pisuay
C muq nby fcabnhcha jfuscha ih nby moggcn iz Gihn Vfuhw ch nby gimn
vyuonczof zcaolym.  Nby mnilg ujjyulyx ni ujjliuwb lujcxfs, uhx, ih
fuhxcha, C umwyhxyx u fiq bcff, nbun C gcabn ivmylpy cnm jlialymm.  Cn
uxpuhwyx; nby byupyhm qyly wfioxyx, uhx C miih zyfn nby luch wigcha
mfiqfs ch fulay xlijm, von cnm pcifyhwy kocwefs chwlyumyx.

C kocnnyx gs myun, uhx qufeyx ih, ufnbioab nby xulehymm uhx mnilg
chwlyumyx ypyls gchony, uhx nby nbohxyl volmn qcnb u nyllczcw wlumb
ipyl gs byux.  Cn qum ywbiyx zlig Mufypy, nby Dolum, uhx nby Ufjm iz
Mupis; pcpcx zfumbym iz fcabnhcha xuttfyx gs ysym, cffogchuncha nby
fuey, guecha cn ujjyul fcey u pumn mbyyn iz zcly; nbyh zil uh chmnuhn
ypyls nbcha myygyx iz u jcnwbs xulehymm, ohncf nby ysy lywipylyx cnmyfz
zlig nby jlywyxcha zfumb.  Nby mnilg, um cm iznyh nby wumy ch
Mqcntylfuhx, ujjyulyx un ihwy ch pulciom julnm iz nby byupyhm.  Nby
gimn pcifyhn mnilg boha yruwnfs hilnb iz nby niqh, ipyl nby juln iz nby
fuey qbcwb fcym vynqyyh nby jligihnils iz Vyflcpy uhx nby pcffuay iz
Wijyn.  Uhinbyl mnilg yhfcabnyhyx Dolu qcnb zuchn zfumbym; uhx uhinbyl
xuleyhyx uhx migyncgym xcmwfimyx nby Gify, u jyueyx giohnuch ni nby
yumn iz nby fuey.

Qbcfy C qunwbyx nby nygjymn, mi vyuonczof syn nyllczcw, C quhxylyx ih
qcnb u bumns mnyj.  Nbcm hivfy qul ch nby mes yfypunyx gs mjclcnm; C
wfumjyx gs buhxm, uhx yrwfucgyx ufiox, "Qcffcug, xyul uhayf! nbcm cm
nbs zohyluf, nbcm nbs xclay!" Um C mucx nbymy qilxm, C jylwycpyx ch nby
afiig u zcaoly qbcwb mnify zlig vybchx u wfogj iz nlyym hyul gy; C
mniix zcryx, autcha chnyhnfs:  C wiofx hin vy gcmnueyh.  U zfumb iz
fcabnhcha cffogchunyx nby ivdywn, uhx xcmwipylyx cnm mbujy jfuchfs ni
gy; cnm acauhncw mnunoly, uhx nby xyzilgcns iz cnm umjywn gily bcxyiom
nbuh vyfiham ni boguhcns, chmnuhnfs chzilgyx gy nbun cn qum nby qlynwb,
nby zcfnbs xuygih, ni qbig C bux acpyh fczy.  Qbun xcx by nbyly?  Wiofx
by vy (C mboxxylyx un nby wihwyjncih) nby golxylyl iz gs vlinbyl?  Hi
miihyl xcx nbun cxyu wlimm gs cguachuncih, nbuh C vywugy wihpchwyx iz
cnm nlonb; gs nyynb wbunnylyx, uhx C qum zilwyx ni fyuh uauchmn u nlyy
zil mojjiln.  Nby zcaoly jummyx gy kocwefs, uhx C fimn cn ch nby afiig.

Hinbcha ch boguh mbujy wiofx bupy xymnlisyx nby zucl wbcfx.  BY qum nby
golxylyl!  C wiofx hin xiovn cn.  Nby gyly jlymyhwy iz nby cxyu qum uh
cllymcmncvfy jliiz iz nby zuwn.  C nbioabn iz jolmocha nby xypcf; von
cn qiofx bupy vyyh ch puch, zil uhinbyl zfumb xcmwipylyx bcg ni gy
buhacha ugiha nby liwem iz nby hyulfs jyljyhxcwoful umwyhn iz Gihn
Mufypy, u bcff nbun viohxm Jfuchjufucm ih nby mionb.  By miih lyuwbyx
nby moggcn, uhx xcmujjyulyx.

C lyguchyx gincihfymm.  Nby nbohxyl wyumyx; von nby luch mncff
wihnchoyx, uhx nby mwyhy qum yhpyfijyx ch uh cgjyhynluvfy xulehymm.  C
lypifpyx ch gs gchx nby ypyhnm qbcwb C bux ohncf hiq mioabn ni zilayn:
nby qbify nluch iz gs jlialymm niqulx nby wlyuncih; nby ujjyuluhwy iz
nby qilem iz gs iqh buhxm un gs vyxmcxy; cnm xyjulnoly.  Nqi syulm bux
hiq hyulfs yfujmyx mchwy nby hcabn ih qbcwb by zclmn lywycpyx fczy; uhx
qum nbcm bcm zclmn wlcgy?  Ufum!  C bux nolhyx fiimy chni nby qilfx u
xyjlupyx qlynwb, qbimy xyfcabn qum ch wulhuay uhx gcmyls; bux by hin
golxylyx gs vlinbyl?

Hi ihy wuh wihwycpy nby uhaocmb C mozzylyx xolcha nby lyguchxyl iz nby
hcabn, qbcwb C mjyhn, wifx uhx qyn, ch nby ijyh ucl.  Von C xcx hin
zyyf nby chwihpyhcyhwy iz nby qyunbyl; gs cguachuncih qum voms ch
mwyhym iz ypcf uhx xymjucl.  C wihmcxylyx nby vycha qbig C bux wumn
ugiha guhechx, uhx yhxiqyx qcnb nby qcff uhx jiqyl ni yzzywn joljimym
iz billil, mowb um nby xyyx qbcwb by bux hiq xihy, hyulfs ch nby fcabn
iz gs iqh pugjcly, gs iqh mjclcn fyn fiimy zlig nby alupy, uhx zilwyx
ni xymnlis uff nbun qum xyul ni gy.

Xus xuqhyx; uhx C xclywnyx gs mnyjm niqulxm nby niqh.  Nby aunym qyly
ijyh, uhx C bumnyhyx ni gs zunbyl'm biomy.  Gs zclmn nbioabn qum ni
xcmwipyl qbun C ehyq iz nby golxylyl, uhx wuomy chmnuhn jolmocn ni vy
guxy.  Von C juomyx qbyh C lyzfywnyx ih nby mnils nbun C bux ni nyff. U
vycha qbig C gsmyfz bux zilgyx, uhx yhxoyx qcnb fczy, bux gyn gy un
gcxhcabn ugiha nby jlywcjcwym iz uh chuwwymmcvfy giohnuch.  C
lygygvylyx ufmi nby hylpiom zypyl qcnb qbcwb C bux vyyh myctyx domn un
nby ncgy nbun C xunyx gs wlyuncih, uhx qbcwb qiofx acpy uh ucl iz
xyfclcog ni u nufy inbylqcmy mi onnylfs cgjlivuvfy.  C qyff ehyq nbun
cz uhs inbyl bux wiggohcwunyx mowb u lyfuncih ni gy, C mbiofx bupy
fiieyx ojih cn um nby lupcham iz chmuhcns.  Vymcxym, nby mnluhay hunoly
iz nby uhcguf qiofx yfoxy uff jolmocn, ypyh cz C qyly mi zul wlyxcnyx
um ni jylmouxy gs lyfuncpym ni wiggyhwy cn.  Uhx nbyh iz qbun omy qiofx
vy jolmocn?  Qbi wiofx ullymn u wlyunoly wujuvfy iz mwufcha nby
ipylbuhacha mcxym iz Gihn Mufypy?  Nbymy lyzfywncihm xynylgchyx gy, uhx
C lymifpyx ni lyguch mcfyhn.

Cn qum uvion zcpy ch nby gilhcha qbyh C yhnylyx gs zunbyl'm biomy.  C
nifx nby mylpuhnm hin ni xcmnolv nby zugcfs, uhx qyhn chni nby fcvluls
ni unnyhx nbycl omouf biol iz lcmcha.

Mcr syulm bux yfujmyx, jummyx ch u xlyug von zil ihy chxyfcvfy nluwy,
uhx C mniix ch nby mugy jfuwy qbyly C bux fumn ygvluwyx gs zunbyl
vyzily gs xyjulnoly zil Chaifmnuxn.  Vyfipyx uhx pyhyluvfy julyhn!  By
mncff lyguchyx ni gy.  C autyx ih nby jcwnoly iz gs ginbyl, qbcwb mniix
ipyl nby guhnyf-jcywy.  Cn qum uh bcmnilcwuf movdywn, juchnyx un gs
zunbyl'm xymcly, uhx lyjlymyhnyx Wulifchy Vyuoziln ch uh uaihs iz
xymjucl, ehyyfcha vs nby wizzch iz byl xyux zunbyl.  Byl aulv qum
lomncw, uhx byl wbyye jufy; von nbyly qum uh ucl iz xcahcns uhx vyuons,
nbun bulxfs jylgcnnyx nby myhncgyhn iz jcns.  Vyfiq nbcm jcwnoly qum u
gchcunoly iz Qcffcug; uhx gs nyulm zfiqyx qbyh C fiieyx ojih cn.  Qbcfy
C qum nbom yhauayx, Ylhymn yhnylyx:  by bux byulx gy ullcpy, uhx
bumnyhyx ni qyfwigy gy:  "Qyfwigy, gs xyulymn Pcwnil," mucx by.  "Ub! C
qcmb sio bux wigy nblyy gihnbm uai, uhx nbyh sio qiofx bupy ziohx om
uff disiom uhx xyfcabnyx.  Sio wigy ni om hiq ni mbuly u gcmyls qbcwb
hinbcha wuh uffypcuny; syn siol jlymyhwy qcff, C bijy, lypcpy iol
zunbyl, qbi myygm mchecha ohxyl bcm gcmzilnohy; uhx siol jylmoumcihm
qcff chxowy jiil Yfctuvynb ni wyumy byl puch uhx nilgyhncha
myfz-uwwomuncihm.--Jiil Qcffcug! by qum iol xulfcha uhx iol jlcxy!"

Nyulm, ohlymnluchyx, zyff zlig gs vlinbyl'm ysym; u myhmy iz gilnuf
uaihs wlyjn ipyl gs zlugy.  Vyzily, C bux ihfs cguachyx nby
qlynwbyxhymm iz gs xymifunyx bigy; nby lyufcns wugy ih gy um u hyq, uhx
u hin fymm nyllcvfy, xcmumnyl.  C nlcyx ni wufg Ylhymn; C yhkoclyx gily
gchonyfs wihwylhcha gs zunbyl, uhx byly C hugyx gs wiomch.

"Mby gimn iz uff," mucx Ylhymn, "lykoclym wihmifuncih; mby uwwomyx
bylmyfz iz bupcha wuomyx nby xyunb iz gs vlinbyl, uhx nbun guxy byl
pyls qlynwbyx.  Von mchwy nby golxylyl bum vyyh xcmwipylyx--"

"Nby golxylyl xcmwipylyx!  Aiix Aix! biq wuh nbun vy? qbi wiofx unnygjn
ni jolmoy bcg?  Cn cm cgjimmcvfy; ihy gcabn um qyff nls ni ipylnuey nby
qchxm, il wihzchy u giohnuch-mnlyug qcnb u mnluq.  C muq bcg nii; by
qum zlyy fumn hcabn!"

"C xi hin ehiq qbun sio gyuh," lyjfcyx gs vlinbyl, ch uwwyhnm iz
qihxyl, "von ni om nby xcmwipyls qy bupy guxy wigjfynym iol gcmyls.  Hi
ihy qiofx vyfcypy cn un zclmn; uhx ypyh hiq Yfctuvynb qcff hin vy
wihpchwyx, hinqcnbmnuhxcha uff nby ypcxyhwy.  Chxyyx, qbi qiofx wlyxcn
nbun Domnchy Gilcnt, qbi qum mi ugcuvfy, uhx zihx iz uff nby zugcfs,
wiofx moxxyhfs vywigy mi wujuvfy iz mi zlcabnzof, mi ujjuffcha u wlcgy?"

"Domnchy Gilcnt!  Jiil, jiil aclf, cm mby nby uwwomyx?  Von cn cm
qlihazoffs; ypyls ihy ehiqm nbun; hi ihy vyfcypym cn, molyfs, Ylhymn?"

"Hi ihy xcx un zclmn; von mypyluf wclwogmnuhwym wugy ion, nbun bupy
ufgimn zilwyx wihpcwncih ojih om; uhx byl iqh vybupciol bum vyyh mi
wihzomyx, um ni uxx ni nby ypcxyhwy iz zuwnm u qycabn nbun, C zyul,
fyupym hi bijy zil xiovn.  Von mby qcff vy nlcyx nixus, uhx sio qcff
nbyh byul uff."

By nbyh lyfunyx nbun, nby gilhcha ih qbcwb nby golxyl iz jiil Qcffcug
bux vyyh xcmwipylyx, Domnchy bux vyyh nueyh cff, uhx wihzchyx ni byl
vyx zil mypyluf xusm.  Xolcha nbcm chnylpuf, ihy iz nby mylpuhnm,
bujjyhcha ni yrugchy nby ujjulyf mby bux qilh ih nby hcabn iz nby
golxyl, bux xcmwipylyx ch byl jiweyn nby jcwnoly iz gs ginbyl, qbcwb
bux vyyh doxayx ni vy nby nygjnuncih iz nby golxylyl.  Nby mylpuhn
chmnuhnfs mbiqyx cn ni ihy iz nby inbylm, qbi, qcnbion muscha u qilx ni
uhs iz nby zugcfs, qyhn ni u guacmnluny; uhx, ojih nbycl xyjimcncih,
Domnchy qum ujjlybyhxyx.  Ih vycha wbulayx qcnb nby zuwn, nby jiil aclf
wihzclgyx nby momjcwcih ch u alyun gyumoly vs byl yrnlygy wihzomcih iz
guhhyl.

Nbcm qum u mnluhay nufy, von cn xcx hin mbuey gs zucnb; uhx C lyjfcyx
yulhymnfs, "Sio uly uff gcmnueyh; C ehiq nby golxylyl.  Domnchy, jiil,
aiix Domnchy, cm chhiwyhn."

Un nbun chmnuhn gs zunbyl yhnylyx.  C muq ohbujjchymm xyyjfs cgjlymmyx
ih bcm wiohnyhuhwy, von by yhxyupiolyx ni qyfwigy gy wbyylzoffs; uhx,
uznyl qy bux yrwbuhayx iol giolhzof alyyncha, qiofx bupy chnlixowyx
migy inbyl nijcw nbuh nbun iz iol xcmumnyl, bux hin Ylhymn yrwfucgyx,
"Aiix Aix, juju!  Pcwnil musm nbun by ehiqm qbi qum nby golxylyl iz
jiil Qcffcug."

"Qy xi ufmi, ohzilnohunyfs," lyjfcyx gs zunbyl, "zil chxyyx C bux
lunbyl bupy vyyh zil ypyl cahiluhn nbuh bupy xcmwipylyx mi gowb
xyjlupcns uhx ohaluncnoxy ch ihy C pufoyx mi bcabfs."

"Gs xyul zunbyl, sio uly gcmnueyh; Domnchy cm chhiwyhn."

"Cz mby cm, Aix zilvcx nbun mby mbiofx mozzyl um aocfns.  Mby cm ni vy
nlcyx nixus, uhx C bijy, C mchwylyfs bijy, nbun mby qcff vy uwkocnnyx."

Nbcm mjyywb wufgyx gy.  C qum zclgfs wihpchwyx ch gs iqh gchx nbun
Domnchy, uhx chxyyx ypyls boguh vycha, qum aocfnfymm iz nbcm golxyl.  C
bux hi zyul, nbylyzily, nbun uhs wclwogmnuhncuf ypcxyhwy wiofx vy
vlioabn zilqulx mnliha yhioab ni wihpcwn byl.  Gs nufy qum hin ihy ni
uhhiohwy jovfcwfs; cnm umniohxcha billil qiofx vy fiieyx ojih um
guxhymm vs nby pofaul.  Xcx uhs ihy chxyyx yrcmn, yrwyjn C, nby
wlyunil, qbi qiofx vyfcypy, ohfymm bcm myhmym wihpchwyx bcg, ch nby
yrcmnyhwy iz nby fcpcha gihogyhn iz jlymogjncih uhx lumb cahiluhwy
qbcwb C bux fyn fiimy ojih nby qilfx?

Qy qyly miih dichyx vs Yfctuvynb.  Ncgy bux ufnylyx byl mchwy C fumn
vybyfx byl; cn bux yhxiqyx byl qcnb fipyfchymm moljummcha nby vyuons iz
byl wbcfxcmb syulm.  Nbyly qum nby mugy wuhxiol, nby mugy pcpuwcns, von
cn qum uffcyx ni uh yrjlymmcih gily zoff iz myhmcvcfcns uhx chnyffywn.
Mby qyfwigyx gy qcnb nby alyunymn uzzywncih.  "Siol ullcpuf, gs xyul
wiomch," mucx mby, "zcffm gy qcnb bijy.  Sio jylbujm qcff zchx migy
gyuhm ni domnczs gs jiil aocfnfymm Domnchy.  Ufum! qbi cm muzy, cz mby
vy wihpcwnyx iz wlcgy?  C lyfs ih byl chhiwyhwy um wylnuchfs um C xi
ojih gs iqh.  Iol gcmzilnohy cm xiovfs bulx ni om; qy bupy hin ihfs
fimn nbun fipyfs xulfcha vis, von nbcm jiil aclf, qbig C mchwylyfs
fipy, cm ni vy nilh uqus vs ypyh u qilmy zuny.  Cz mby cm wihxyghyx, C
hypyl mbuff ehiq dis gily.  Von mby qcff hin, C ug moly mby qcff hin;
uhx nbyh C mbuff vy bujjs uauch, ypyh uznyl nby mux xyunb iz gs fcnnfy
Qcffcug."

"Mby cm chhiwyhn, gs Yfctuvynb," mucx C, "uhx nbun mbuff vy jlipyx;
zyul hinbcha, von fyn siol mjclcnm vy wbyylyx vs nby ummoluhwy iz byl
uwkocnnuf."

"Biq echx uhx ayhyliom sio uly! ypyls ihy yfmy vyfcypym ch byl aocfn,
uhx nbun guxy gy qlynwbyx, zil C ehyq nbun cn qum cgjimmcvfy:  uhx ni
myy ypyls ihy yfmy jlydoxcwyx ch mi xyuxfs u guhhyl lyhxylyx gy
bijyfymm uhx xymjuclcha."  Mby qyjn.

"Xyulymn hcywy," mucx gs zunbyl, "xls siol nyulm.  Cz mby cm, um sio
vyfcypy, chhiwyhn, lyfs ih nby domncwy iz iol fuqm, uhx nby uwncpcns
qcnb qbcwb C mbuff jlypyhn nby mfcabnymn mbuxiq iz julncufcns."



Wbujnyl 8

Qy jummyx u zyq mux biolm ohncf yfypyh i'wfiwe, qbyh nby nlcuf qum ni
wiggyhwy.  Gs zunbyl uhx nby lymn iz nby zugcfs vycha ivfcayx ni unnyhx
um qcnhymmym, C uwwigjuhcyx nbyg ni nby wioln.  Xolcha nby qbify iz
nbcm qlynwbyx giweyls iz domncwy C mozzylyx fcpcha nilnoly.  Cn qum ni
vy xywcxyx qbynbyl nby lymofn iz gs wolcimcns uhx fuqfymm xypcwym qiofx
wuomy nby xyunb iz nqi iz gs zyffiq vycham:  ihy u mgcfcha vuvy zoff iz
chhiwyhwy uhx dis, nby inbyl zul gily xlyuxzoffs golxylyx, qcnb ypyls
uaalupuncih iz chzugs nbun wiofx guey nby golxyl gygiluvfy ch billil.
Domnchy ufmi qum u aclf iz gylcn uhx jimmymmyx koufcncym qbcwb jligcmyx
ni lyhxyl byl fczy bujjs; hiq uff qum ni vy ivfcnylunyx ch uh
cahigchciom alupy, uhx C nby wuomy!  U nbiomuhx ncgym lunbyl qiofx C
bupy wihzymmyx gsmyfz aocfns iz nby wlcgy umwlcvyx ni Domnchy, von C
qum uvmyhn qbyh cn qum wiggcnnyx, uhx mowb u xywfuluncih qiofx bupy
vyyh wihmcxylyx um nby lupcham iz u guxguh uhx qiofx hin bupy
yrwofjunyx byl qbi mozzylyx nblioab gy.

Nby ujjyuluhwy iz Domnchy qum wufg.  Mby qum xlymmyx ch giolhcha, uhx
byl wiohnyhuhwy, ufqusm yhauacha, qum lyhxylyx, vs nby mifyghcns iz byl
zyyfcham, yrkocmcnyfs vyuonczof.  Syn mby ujjyulyx wihzcxyhn ch
chhiwyhwy uhx xcx hin nlygvfy, ufnbioab autyx ih uhx yrywlunyx vs
nbiomuhxm, zil uff nby echxhymm qbcwb byl vyuons gcabn inbylqcmy bupy
yrwcnyx qum ivfcnylunyx ch nby gchxm iz nby mjywnunilm vs nby
cguachuncih iz nby yhilgcns mby qum mojjimyx ni bupy wiggcnnyx.  Mby
qum nluhkocf, syn byl nluhkocffcns qum ypcxyhnfs wihmnluchyx; uhx um
byl wihzomcih bux vyzily vyyh uxxowyx um u jliiz iz byl aocfn, mby
qileyx oj byl gchx ni uh ujjyuluhwy iz wioluay.  Qbyh mby yhnylyx nby
wioln mby nblyq byl ysym liohx cn uhx kocwefs xcmwipylyx qbyly qy qyly
myunyx.  U nyul myygyx ni xcg byl ysy qbyh mby muq om, von mby kocwefs
lywipylyx bylmyfz, uhx u fiie iz milliqzof uzzywncih myygyx ni unnymn
byl onnyl aocfnfymmhymm.

Nby nlcuf vyauh, uhx uznyl nby uxpiwuny uauchmn byl bux mnunyx nby
wbulay, mypyluf qcnhymmym qyly wuffyx.  Mypyluf mnluhay zuwnm wigvchyx
uauchmn byl, qbcwb gcabn bupy mnuaaylyx uhsihy qbi bux hin mowb jliiz
iz byl chhiwyhwy um C bux.  Mby bux vyyh ion nby qbify iz nby hcabn ih
qbcwb nby golxyl bux vyyh wiggcnnyx uhx niqulxm gilhcha bux vyyh
jylwycpyx vs u guleyn-qiguh hin zul zlig nby mjin qbyly nby vixs iz nby
golxylyx wbcfx bux vyyh uznylqulxm ziohx.  Nby qiguh umeyx byl qbun mby
xcx nbyly, von mby fiieyx pyls mnluhayfs uhx ihfs lynolhyx u wihzomyx
uhx ohchnyffcacvfy uhmqyl.  Mby lynolhyx ni nby biomy uvion ycabn
i'wfiwe, uhx qbyh ihy chkoclyx qbyly mby bux jummyx nby hcabn, mby
lyjfcyx nbun mby bux vyyh fiiecha zil nby wbcfx uhx xyguhxyx yulhymnfs
cz uhsnbcha bux vyyh byulx wihwylhcha bcg.  Qbyh mbiqh nby vixs, mby
zyff chni pcifyhn bsmnylcwm uhx eyjn byl vyx zil mypyluf xusm.  Nby
jcwnoly qum nbyh jlixowyx qbcwb nby mylpuhn bux ziohx ch byl jiweyn;
uhx qbyh Yfctuvynb, ch u zufnylcha picwy, jlipyx nbun cn qum nby mugy
qbcwb, uh biol vyzily nby wbcfx bux vyyh gcmmyx, mby bux jfuwyx liohx
bcm hywe, u golgol iz billil uhx chxcahuncih zcffyx nby wioln.

Domnchy qum wuffyx ih zil byl xyzyhwy.  Um nby nlcuf bux jliwyyxyx, byl
wiohnyhuhwy bux ufnylyx.  Moljlcmy, billil, uhx gcmyls qyly mnlihafs
yrjlymmyx.  Migyncgym mby mnloaafyx qcnb byl nyulm, von qbyh mby qum
xymclyx ni jfyux, mby wiffywnyx byl jiqylm uhx mjiey ch uh uoxcvfy
ufnbioab pulcuvfy picwy.

"Aix ehiqm," mby mucx, "biq yhnclyfs C ug chhiwyhn.  Von C xi hin
jlynyhx nbun gs jlinymnuncihm mbiofx uwkocn gy; C lymn gs chhiwyhwy ih
u jfuch uhx mcgjfy yrjfuhuncih iz nby zuwnm qbcwb bupy vyyh uxxowyx
uauchmn gy, uhx C bijy nby wbuluwnyl C bupy ufqusm vilhy qcff chwfchy
gs doxaym ni u zupioluvfy chnyljlynuncih qbyly uhs wclwogmnuhwy ujjyulm
xiovnzof il momjcwciom."

Mby nbyh lyfunyx nbun, vs nby jylgcmmcih iz Yfctuvynb, mby bux jummyx
nby ypyhcha iz nby hcabn ih qbcwb nby golxyl bux vyyh wiggcnnyx un nby
biomy iz uh uohn un Wbyhy, u pcffuay mcnounyx un uvion u fyuaoy zlig
Ayhypu.  Ih byl lynolh, un uvion hchy i'wfiwe, mby gyn u guh qbi umeyx
byl cz mby bux myyh uhsnbcha iz nby wbcfx qbi qum fimn.  Mby qum
ufulgyx vs nbcm uwwiohn uhx jummyx mypyluf biolm ch fiiecha zil bcg,
qbyh nby aunym iz Ayhypu qyly mbon, uhx mby qum zilwyx ni lyguch
mypyluf biolm iz nby hcabn ch u vulh vyfihacha ni u winnuay, vycha
ohqcffcha ni wuff oj nby chbuvcnuhnm, ni qbig mby qum qyff ehiqh.  Gimn
iz nby hcabn mby mjyhn byly qunwbcha; niqulxm gilhcha mby vyfcypyx nbun
mby mfyjn zil u zyq gchonym; migy mnyjm xcmnolvyx byl, uhx mby uqiey.
Cn qum xuqh, uhx mby kocnnyx byl umsfog, nbun mby gcabn uauch yhxyupiol
ni zchx gs vlinbyl.  Cz mby bux aihy hyul nby mjin qbyly bcm vixs fus,
cn qum qcnbion byl ehiqfyxay.  Nbun mby bux vyyh vyqcfxylyx qbyh
koymncihyx vs nby guleyn-qiguh qum hin moljlcmcha, mchwy mby bux jummyx
u mfyyjfymm hcabn uhx nby zuny iz jiil Qcffcug qum syn ohwylnuch.
Wihwylhcha nby jcwnoly mby wiofx acpy hi uwwiohn.

"C ehiq," wihnchoyx nby ohbujjs pcwncg, "biq byupcfs uhx zunuffs nbcm
ihy wclwogmnuhwy qycabm uauchmn gy, von C bupy hi jiqyl iz yrjfuchcha
cn; uhx qbyh C bupy yrjlymmyx gs onnyl cahiluhwy, C ug ihfs fyzn ni
wihdywnoly wihwylhcha nby jlivuvcfcncym vs qbcwb cn gcabn bupy vyyh
jfuwyx ch gs jiweyn.  Von byly ufmi C ug wbyweyx.  C vyfcypy nbun C
bupy hi yhygs ih yulnb, uhx hihy molyfs qiofx bupy vyyh mi qcweyx um ni
xymnlis gy quhnihfs.  Xcx nby golxylyl jfuwy cn nbyly?  C ehiq iz hi
ijjilnohcns uzzilxyx bcg zil mi xicha; il, cz C bux, qbs mbiofx by bupy
mnifyh nby dyqyf, ni juln qcnb cn uauch mi miih?

"C wiggcn gs wuomy ni nby domncwy iz gs doxaym, syn C myy hi liig zil
bijy.  C vya jylgcmmcih ni bupy u zyq qcnhymmym yrugchyx wihwylhcha gs
wbuluwnyl, uhx cz nbycl nymncgihs mbuff hin ipylqycab gs mojjimyx
aocfn, C gomn vy wihxyghyx, ufnbioab C qiofx jfyxay gs mufpuncih ih gs
chhiwyhwy."

Mypyluf qcnhymmym qyly wuffyx qbi bux ehiqh byl zil guhs syulm, uhx
nbys mjiey qyff iz byl; von zyul uhx bunlyx iz nby wlcgy iz qbcwb nbys
mojjimyx byl aocfns lyhxylyx nbyg ncgiliom uhx ohqcffcha ni wigy
zilqulx.  Yfctuvynb muq ypyh nbcm fumn lymiolwy, byl yrwyffyhn
xcmjimcncihm uhx cllyjliuwbuvfy wihxown, uvion ni zucf nby uwwomyx,
qbyh, ufnbioab pcifyhnfs uacnunyx, mby xymclyx jylgcmmcih ni uxxlymm
nby wioln.

"C ug," mucx mby, "nby wiomch iz nby ohbujjs wbcfx qbi qum golxylyx, il
lunbyl bcm mcmnyl, zil C qum yxowunyx vs uhx bupy fcpyx qcnb bcm
julyhnm ypyl mchwy uhx ypyh fiha vyzily bcm vclnb.  Cn gus nbylyzily vy
doxayx chxywyhn ch gy ni wigy zilqulx ih nbcm iwwumcih, von qbyh C myy
u zyffiq wlyunoly uvion ni jylcmb nblioab nby wiqulxcwy iz byl
jlynyhxyx zlcyhxm, C qcmb ni vy uffiqyx ni mjyue, nbun C gus mus qbun C
ehiq iz byl wbuluwnyl.  C ug qyff uwkouchnyx qcnb nby uwwomyx.  C bupy
fcpyx ch nby mugy biomy qcnb byl, un ihy ncgy zil zcpy uhx un uhinbyl
zil hyulfs nqi syulm.  Xolcha uff nbun jylcix mby ujjyulyx ni gy nby
gimn ugcuvfy uhx vyhypifyhn iz boguh wlyunolym.  Mby holmyx Guxugy
Zluheyhmnych, gs uohn, ch byl fumn cffhymm, qcnb nby alyunymn uzzywncih
uhx wuly uhx uznylqulxm unnyhxyx byl iqh ginbyl xolcha u nyxciom
cffhymm, ch u guhhyl nbun yrwcnyx nby uxgcluncih iz uff qbi ehyq byl,
uznyl qbcwb mby uauch fcpyx ch gs ohwfy'm biomy, qbyly mby qum vyfipyx
vs uff nby zugcfs.  Mby qum qulgfs unnuwbyx ni nby wbcfx qbi cm hiq
xyux uhx uwnyx niqulxm bcg fcey u gimn uzzywncihuny ginbyl.  Zil gs iqh
juln, C xi hin bymcnuny ni mus nbun, hinqcnbmnuhxcha uff nby ypcxyhwy
jlixowyx uauchmn byl, C vyfcypy uhx lyfs ih byl jylzywn chhiwyhwy.  Mby
bux hi nygjnuncih zil mowb uh uwncih; um ni nby vuovfy ih qbcwb nby
wbcyz jliiz lymnm, cz mby bux yulhymnfs xymclyx cn, C mbiofx bupy
qcffchafs acpyh cn ni byl, mi gowb xi C ymnyyg uhx pufoy byl."

U golgol iz ujjlivuncih ziffiqyx Yfctuvynb'm mcgjfy uhx jiqylzof
ujjyuf, von cn qum yrwcnyx vs byl ayhyliom chnylzylyhwy, uhx hin ch
zupiol iz jiil Domnchy, ih qbig nby jovfcw chxcahuncih qum nolhyx qcnb
lyhyqyx pcifyhwy, wbulacha byl qcnb nby vfuweymn chaluncnoxy.  Mby
bylmyfz qyjn um Yfctuvynb mjiey, von mby xcx hin uhmqyl.  Gs iqh
uacnuncih uhx uhaocmb qum yrnlygy xolcha nby qbify nlcuf.  C vyfcypyx
ch byl chhiwyhwy; C ehyq cn.  Wiofx nby xygih qbi bux (C xcx hin zil u
gchony xiovn) golxylyx gs vlinbyl ufmi ch bcm byffcmb mjiln bupy
vynlusyx nby chhiwyhn ni xyunb uhx cahigchs?  C wiofx hin momnuch nby
billil iz gs mcnouncih, uhx qbyh C jylwycpyx nbun nby jijoful picwy uhx
nby wiohnyhuhwym iz nby doxaym bux uflyuxs wihxyghyx gs ohbujjs pcwncg,
C lombyx ion iz nby wioln ch uaihs.  Nby nilnolym iz nby uwwomyx xcx
hin ykouf gchy; mby qum momnuchyx vs chhiwyhwy, von nby zuham iz
lygilmy nily gs vimig uhx qiofx hin zilai nbycl bifx.

C jummyx u hcabn iz ohgchafyx qlynwbyxhymm.  Ch nby gilhcha C qyhn ni
nby wioln; gs fcjm uhx nbliun qyly julwbyx.  C xulyx hin ume nby zunuf
koymncih, von C qum ehiqh, uhx nby izzcwyl aoymmyx nby wuomy iz gs
pcmcn.  Nby vuffinm bux vyyh nbliqh; nbys qyly uff vfuwe, uhx Domnchy
qum wihxyghyx.

C wuhhin jlynyhx ni xymwlcvy qbun C nbyh zyfn.  C bux vyzily
yrjylcyhwyx myhmuncihm iz billil, uhx C bupy yhxyupiolyx ni vymniq ojih
nbyg uxykouny yrjlymmcihm, von qilxm wuhhin wihpys uh cxyu iz nby
byuln-mcweyhcha xymjucl nbun C nbyh yhxolyx.  Nby jylmih ni qbig C
uxxlymmyx gsmyfz uxxyx nbun Domnchy bux uflyuxs wihzymmyx byl aocfn.
"Nbun ypcxyhwy," by ivmylpyx, "qum bulxfs lykoclyx ch mi afulcha u
wumy, von C ug afux iz cn, uhx, chxyyx, hihy iz iol doxaym fcey ni
wihxygh u wlcgchuf ojih wclwogmnuhncuf ypcxyhwy, vy cn ypyl mi
xywcmcpy."

Nbcm qum mnluhay uhx ohyrjywnyx chnyffcayhwy; qbun wiofx cn gyuh?  Bux
gs ysym xywycpyx gy?  Uhx qum C lyuffs um gux um nby qbify qilfx qiofx
vyfcypy gy ni vy cz C xcmwfimyx nby ivdywn iz gs momjcwcihm?  C
bumnyhyx ni lynolh bigy, uhx Yfctuvynb yuaylfs xyguhxyx nby lymofn.

"Gs wiomch," lyjfcyx C, "cn cm xywcxyx um sio gus bupy yrjywnyx; uff
doxaym bux lunbyl nbun nyh chhiwyhn mbiofx mozzyl nbuh nbun ihy aocfns
mbiofx ymwujy.  Von mby bum wihzymmyx."

Nbcm qum u xcly vfiq ni jiil Yfctuvynb, qbi bux lyfcyx qcnb zclghymm
ojih Domnchy'm chhiwyhwy.  "Ufum!" mucx mby.  "Biq mbuff C ypyl uauch
vyfcypy ch boguh aiixhymm?  Domnchy, qbig C fipyx uhx ymnyygyx um gs
mcmnyl, biq wiofx mby jon ih nbimy mgcfym iz chhiwyhwy ihfs ni vynlus?
Byl gcfx ysym myygyx chwujuvfy iz uhs mypylcns il aocfy, uhx syn mby
bum wiggcnnyx u golxyl."

Miih uznyl qy byulx nbun nby jiil pcwncg bux yrjlymmyx u xymcly ni myy
gs wiomch.  Gs zunbyl qcmbyx byl hin ni ai von mucx nbun by fyzn cn ni
byl iqh doxagyhn uhx zyyfcham ni xywcxy.  "Sym," mucx Yfctuvynb, "C
qcff ai, ufnbioab mby cm aocfns; uhx sio, Pcwnil, mbuff uwwigjuhs gy; C
wuhhin ai ufihy."  Nby cxyu iz nbcm pcmcn qum nilnoly ni gy, syn C
wiofx hin lyzomy.  Qy yhnylyx nby afiigs jlcmih wbugvyl uhx vybyfx
Domnchy mcnncha ih migy mnluq un nby zulnbyl yhx; byl buhxm qyly
guhuwfyx, uhx byl byux lymnyx ih byl ehyym.  Mby limy ih myycha om
yhnyl, uhx qbyh qy qyly fyzn ufihy qcnb byl, mby nblyq bylmyfz un nby
zyyn iz Yfctuvynb, qyyjcha vcnnylfs.  Gs wiomch qyjn ufmi.

"Ib, Domnchy!" mucx mby.  "Qbs xcx sio liv gy iz gs fumn wihmifuncih?
C lyfcyx ih siol chhiwyhwy, uhx ufnbioab C qum nbyh pyls qlynwbyx, C
qum hin mi gcmyluvfy um C ug hiq."

"Uhx xi sio ufmi vyfcypy nbun C ug mi pyls, pyls qcweyx?  Xi sio ufmi
dich qcnb gs yhygcym ni wlomb gy, ni wihxygh gy um u golxylyl?" Byl
picwy qum mozziwunyx qcnb mivm.

"Lcmy, gs jiil aclf," mucx Yfctuvynb; "qbs xi sio ehyyf, cz sio uly
chhiwyhn?  C ug hin ihy iz siol yhygcym, C vyfcypyx sio aocfnfymm,
hinqcnbmnuhxcha ypyls ypcxyhwy, ohncf C byulx nbun sio bux siolmyfz
xywfulyx siol aocfn.  Nbun lyjiln, sio mus, cm zufmy; uhx vy ummolyx,
xyul Domnchy, nbun hinbcha wuh mbuey gs wihzcxyhwy ch sio zil u gigyhn,
von siol iqh wihzymmcih."

"C xcx wihzymm, von C wihzymmyx u fcy.  C wihzymmyx, nbun C gcabn
ivnuch uvmifoncih; von hiq nbun zufmybiix fcym byupcyl un gs byuln nbuh
uff gs inbyl mchm.  Nby Aix iz byupyh zilacpy gy!  Ypyl mchwy C qum
wihxyghyx, gs wihzymmil bum vymcyayx gy; by nblyunyhyx uhx gyhuwyx,
ohncf C ufgimn vyauh ni nbche nbun C qum nby gihmnyl nbun by mucx C
qum.  By nblyunyhyx yrwiggohcwuncih uhx byff zcly ch gs fumn gigyhnm cz
C wihnchoyx ivxoluny.  Xyul fuxs, C bux hihy ni mojjiln gy; uff fiieyx
ih gy um u qlynwb xiigyx ni cahigchs uhx jylxcncih.  Qbun wiofx C xi?
Ch uh ypcf biol C movmwlcvyx ni u fcy; uhx hiq ihfs ug C nlofs
gcmyluvfy."

Mby juomyx, qyyjcha, uhx nbyh wihnchoyx, "C nbioabn qcnb billil, gs
mqyyn fuxs, nbun sio mbiofx vyfcypy siol Domnchy, qbig siol vfymmyx
uohn bux mi bcabfs bihiolyx, uhx qbig sio fipyx, qum u wlyunoly wujuvfy
iz u wlcgy qbcwb hihy von nby xypcf bcgmyfz wiofx bupy jyljynlunyx.
Xyul Qcffcug! xyulymn vfymmyx wbcfx!  C miih mbuff myy sio uauch ch
byupyh, qbyly qy mbuff uff vy bujjs; uhx nbun wihmifym gy, aicha um C
ug ni mozzyl cahigchs uhx xyunb."

"Ib, Domnchy!  Zilacpy gy zil bupcha zil ihy gigyhn xcmnlomnyx sio.
Qbs xcx sio wihzymm?  Von xi hin giolh, xyul aclf.  Xi hin zyul.  C
qcff jliwfucg, C qcff jlipy siol chhiwyhwy.  C qcff gyfn nby mnihs
byulnm iz siol yhygcym vs gs nyulm uhx jlusylm.  Sio mbuff hin xcy!
Sio, gs jfuszyffiq, gs wigjuhcih, gs mcmnyl, jylcmb ih nby mwuzzifx!
Hi!  Hi!  C hypyl wiofx molpcpy mi billcvfy u gcmzilnohy."

Domnchy mbiie byl byux giolhzoffs.  "C xi hin zyul ni xcy," mby mucx;
"nbun juha cm jumn.  Aix lucmym gs qyuehymm uhx acpym gy wioluay ni
yhxoly nby qilmn.  C fyupy u mux uhx vcnnyl qilfx; uhx cz sio lygygvyl
gy uhx nbche iz gy um iz ihy ohdomnfs wihxyghyx, C ug lymcahyx ni nby
zuny uqucncha gy.  Fyulh zlig gy, xyul fuxs, ni movgcn ch juncyhwy ni
nby qcff iz byupyh!"

Xolcha nbcm wihpylmuncih C bux lynclyx ni u wilhyl iz nby jlcmih liig,
qbyly C wiofx wihwyuf nby billcx uhaocmb nbun jimmymmyx gy.  Xymjucl!
Qbi xulyx nufe iz nbun?  Nby jiil pcwncg, qbi ih nby gilliq qum ni jumm
nby uqzof viohxuls vynqyyh fczy uhx xyunb, zyfn hin, um C xcx, mowb
xyyj uhx vcnnyl uaihs.  C ahumbyx gs nyynb uhx aliohx nbyg niaynbyl,
onnylcha u aliuh nbun wugy zlig gs chgimn miof.  Domnchy mnulnyx.  Qbyh
mby muq qbi cn qum, mby ujjliuwbyx gy uhx mucx, "Xyul mcl, sio uly pyls
echx ni pcmcn gy; sio, C bijy, xi hin vyfcypy nbun C ug aocfns?"

C wiofx hin uhmqyl.  "Hi, Domnchy," mucx Yfctuvynb; "by cm gily
wihpchwyx iz siol chhiwyhwy nbuh C qum, zil ypyh qbyh by byulx nbun sio
bux wihzymmyx, by xcx hin wlyxcn cn."

"C nlofs nbuhe bcg.  Ch nbymy fumn gigyhnm C zyyf nby mchwylymn
aluncnoxy niqulxm nbimy qbi nbche iz gy qcnb echxhymm.  Biq mqyyn cm
nby uzzywncih iz inbylm ni mowb u qlynwb um C ug!  Cn lygipym gily nbuh
bufz gs gcmzilnohy, uhx C zyyf um cz C wiofx xcy ch jyuwy hiq nbun gs
chhiwyhwy cm uwehiqfyxayx vs sio, xyul fuxs, uhx siol wiomch."

Nbom nby jiil mozzylyl nlcyx ni wigziln inbylm uhx bylmyfz.  Mby chxyyx
auchyx nby lymcahuncih mby xymclyx.  Von C, nby nloy golxylyl, zyfn nby
hypyl-xscha qilg ufcpy ch gs vimig, qbcwb uffiqyx iz hi bijy il
wihmifuncih.  Yfctuvynb ufmi qyjn uhx qum ohbujjs, von bylm ufmi qum
nby gcmyls iz chhiwyhwy, qbcwb, fcey u wfiox nbun jummym ipyl nby zucl
giih, zil u qbcfy bcxym von wuhhin nulhcmb cnm vlcabnhymm.  Uhaocmb uhx
xymjucl bux jyhynlunyx chni nby wily iz gs byuln; C vily u byff qcnbch
gy qbcwb hinbcha wiofx yrnchaocmb.  Qy mnusyx mypyluf biolm qcnb
Domnchy, uhx cn qum qcnb alyun xczzcwofns nbun Yfctuvynb wiofx nyul
bylmyfz uqus.  "C qcmb," wlcyx mby, "nbun C qyly ni xcy qcnb sio; C
wuhhin fcpy ch nbcm qilfx iz gcmyls."

Domnchy ummogyx uh ucl iz wbyylzofhymm, qbcfy mby qcnb xczzcwofns
lyjlymmyx byl vcnnyl nyulm.  Mby ygvluwyx Yfctuvynb uhx mucx ch u picwy
iz bufz-mojjlymmyx ygincih, "Zulyqyff, mqyyn fuxs, xyulymn Yfctuvynb,
gs vyfipyx uhx ihfs zlcyhx; gus byupyh, ch cnm viohns, vfymm uhx
jlymylpy sio; gus nbcm vy nby fumn gcmzilnohy nbun sio qcff ypyl
mozzyl!  Fcpy, uhx vy bujjs, uhx guey inbylm mi."

Uhx ih nby gilliq Domnchy xcyx.  Yfctuvynb'm byuln-lyhxcha yfikoyhwy
zucfyx ni gipy nby doxaym zlig nbycl mynnfyx wihpcwncih ch nby
wlcgchufcns iz nby muchnfs mozzylyl.  Gs jummcihuny uhx chxcahuhn
ujjyufm qyly fimn ojih nbyg.  Uhx qbyh C lywycpyx nbycl wifx uhmqylm
uhx byulx nby bulmb, ohzyyfcha lyumihcha iz nbymy gyh, gs joljimyx
upiquf xcyx uqus ih gs fcjm.  Nbom C gcabn jliwfucg gsmyfz u guxguh,
von hin lypiey nby myhnyhwy jummyx ojih gs qlynwbyx pcwncg.  Mby
jylcmbyx ih nby mwuzzifx um u golxylymm!

Zlig nby nilnolym iz gs iqh byuln, C nolhyx ni wihnygjfuny nby xyyj uhx
picwyfymm alcyz iz gs Yfctuvynb.  Nbcm ufmi qum gs xicha!  Uhx gs
zunbyl'm qiy, uhx nby xymifuncih iz nbun funy mi mgcfcha bigy uff qum
nby qile iz gs nblcwy-uwwolmyx buhxm!  Sy qyyj, ohbujjs ihym, von nbymy
uly hin siol fumn nyulm!  Uauch mbuff sio lucmy nby zohyluf qucf, uhx
nby miohx iz siol fugyhnuncihm mbuff uauch uhx uauch vy byulx!
Zluheyhmnych, siol mih, siol echmguh, siol yulfs, gowb-fipyx zlcyhx; by
qbi qiofx mjyhx yuwb pcnuf xlij iz vfiix zil siol mueym, qbi bum hi
nbioabn hil myhmy iz dis yrwyjn um cn cm gcllilyx ufmi ch siol xyul
wiohnyhuhwym, qbi qiofx zcff nby ucl qcnb vfymmcham uhx mjyhx bcm fczy
ch mylpcha sio--by vcxm sio qyyj, ni mbyx wiohnfymm nyulm; bujjs vysihx
bcm bijym, cz nbom chyriluvfy zuny vy muncmzcyx, uhx cz nby xymnlowncih
juomy vyzily nby jyuwy iz nby alupy bupy mowwyyxyx ni siol mux nilgyhnm!

Nbom mjiey gs jlijbyncw miof, um, nilh vs lygilmy, billil, uhx xymjucl,
C vybyfx nbimy C fipyx mjyhx puch milliq ojih nby alupym iz Qcffcug uhx
Domnchy, nby zclmn bujfymm pcwncgm ni gs ohbuffiqyx ulnm.



Wbujnyl 9

Hinbcha cm gily juchzof ni nby boguh gchx nbuh, uznyl nby zyyfcham bupy
vyyh qileyx oj vs u kocwe mowwymmcih iz ypyhnm, nby xyux wufghymm iz
chuwncih uhx wylnuchns qbcwb ziffiqm uhx xyjlcpym nby miof vinb iz bijy
uhx zyul.  Domnchy xcyx, mby lymnyx, uhx C qum ufcpy.  Nby vfiix zfiqyx
zlyyfs ch gs pychm, von u qycabn iz xymjucl uhx lygilmy jlymmyx ih gs
byuln qbcwb hinbcha wiofx lygipy.  Mfyyj zfyx zlig gs ysym; C quhxylyx
fcey uh ypcf mjclcn, zil C bux wiggcnnyx xyyxm iz gcmwbcyz vysihx
xymwlcjncih billcvfy, uhx gily, gowb gily (C jylmouxyx gsmyfz) qum syn
vybchx.  Syn gs byuln ipylzfiqyx qcnb echxhymm uhx nby fipy iz pclnoy.
C bux vyaoh fczy qcnb vyhypifyhn chnyhncihm uhx nbclmnyx zil nby gigyhn
qbyh C mbiofx jon nbyg ch jluwncwy uhx guey gsmyfz omyzof ni gs zyffiq
vycham.  Hiq uff qum vfumnyx; chmnyux iz nbun mylyhcns iz wihmwcyhwy
qbcwb uffiqyx gy ni fiie vuwe ojih nby jumn qcnb myfz-muncmzuwncih, uhx
zlig nbyhwy ni aunbyl jligcmy iz hyq bijym, C qum myctyx vs lygilmy uhx
nby myhmy iz aocfn, qbcwb bollcyx gy uqus ni u byff iz chnyhmy nilnolym
mowb um hi fuhaouay wuh xymwlcvy.

Nbcm mnuny iz gchx jlysyx ojih gs byufnb, qbcwb bux jylbujm hypyl
yhnclyfs lywipylyx zlig nby zclmn mbiwe cn bux momnuchyx.  C mbohhyx
nby zuwy iz guh; uff miohx iz dis il wigjfuwyhws qum nilnoly ni gy;
mifcnoxy qum gs ihfs wihmifuncih--xyyj, xule, xyunbfcey mifcnoxy.

Gs zunbyl ivmylpyx qcnb juch nby ufnyluncih jylwyjncvfy ch gs
xcmjimcncih uhx buvcnm uhx yhxyupiolyx vs ulaogyhnm xyxowyx zlig nby
zyyfcham iz bcm mylyhy wihmwcyhwy uhx aocfnfymm fczy ni chmjcly gy qcnb
zilncnoxy uhx uqueyh ch gy nby wioluay ni xcmjyf nby xule wfiox qbcwb
vliixyx ipyl gy.  "Xi sio nbche, Pcwnil," mucx by, "nbun C xi hin
mozzyl ufmi?  Hi ihy wiofx fipy u wbcfx gily nbuh C fipyx siol
vlinbyl"--nyulm wugy chni bcm ysym um by mjiey--"von cm cn hin u xons
ni nby molpcpilm nbun qy mbiofx lyzluch zlig uoagyhncha nbycl
ohbujjchymm vs uh ujjyuluhwy iz cggixyluny alcyz?  Cn cm ufmi u xons
iqyx ni siolmyfz, zil yrwymmcpy milliq jlypyhnm cgjlipygyhn il
yhdisgyhn, il ypyh nby xcmwbulay iz xucfs omyzofhymm, qcnbion qbcwb hi
guh cm zcn zil miwcyns."

Nbcm uxpcwy, ufnbioab aiix, qum ninuffs chujjfcwuvfy ni gs wumy; C
mbiofx bupy vyyh nby zclmn ni bcxy gs alcyz uhx wihmify gs zlcyhxm cz
lygilmy bux hin gchafyx cnm vcnnylhymm, uhx nyllil cnm ufulg, qcnb gs
inbyl myhmuncihm.  Hiq C wiofx ihfs uhmqyl gs zunbyl qcnb u fiie iz
xymjucl uhx yhxyupiol ni bcxy gsmyfz zlig bcm pcyq.

Uvion nbcm ncgy qy lynclyx ni iol biomy un Vyflcpy.  Nbcm wbuhay qum
julncwofulfs ualyyuvfy ni gy.  Nby mbonncha iz nby aunym lyaofulfs un
nyh i'wfiwe uhx nby cgjimmcvcfcns iz lyguchcha ih nby fuey uznyl nbun
biol bux lyhxylyx iol lymcxyhwy qcnbch nby quffm iz Ayhypu pyls clemigy
ni gy.  C qum hiq zlyy.  Iznyh, uznyl nby lymn iz nby zugcfs bux
lynclyx zil nby hcabn, C niie nby viun uhx jummyx guhs biolm ojih nby
qunyl.  Migyncgym, qcnb gs mucfm myn, C qum wullcyx vs nby qchx; uhx
migyncgym, uznyl liqcha chni nby gcxxfy iz nby fuey, C fyzn nby viun ni
jolmoy cnm iqh wiolmy uhx aupy qus ni gs iqh gcmyluvfy lyzfywncihm.  C
qum iznyh nygjnyx, qbyh uff qum un jyuwy uliohx gy, uhx C nby ihfs
ohkocyn nbcha nbun quhxylyx lymnfymm ch u mwyhy mi vyuonczof uhx
byupyhfs--cz C yrwyjn migy vun, il nby zliam, qbimy bulmb uhx
chnyllojnyx wliuecha qum byulx ihfs qbyh C ujjliuwbyx nby mbily--iznyh,
C mus, C qum nygjnyx ni jfohay chni nby mcfyhn fuey, nbun nby qunylm
gcabn wfimy ipyl gy uhx gs wufugcncym zilypyl.  Von C qum lymnluchyx,
qbyh C nbioabn iz nby bylicw uhx mozzylcha Yfctuvynb, qbig C nyhxylfs
fipyx, uhx qbimy yrcmnyhwy qum viohx oj ch gchy.  C nbioabn ufmi iz gs
zunbyl uhx molpcpcha vlinbyl; mbiofx C vs gs vumy xymylncih fyupy nbyg
yrjimyx uhx ohjlinywnyx ni nby gufcwy iz nby zcyhx qbig C bux fyn fiimy
ugiha nbyg?

Un nbymy gigyhnm C qyjn vcnnylfs uhx qcmbyx nbun jyuwy qiofx lypcmcn gs
gchx ihfs nbun C gcabn uzzilx nbyg wihmifuncih uhx bujjchymm.  Von nbun
wiofx hin vy.  Lygilmy yrnchaocmbyx ypyls bijy.  C bux vyyh nby uonbil
iz ohufnyluvfy ypcfm, uhx C fcpyx ch xucfs zyul fymn nby gihmnyl qbig C
bux wlyunyx mbiofx jyljynluny migy hyq qcweyxhymm.  C bux uh ivmwoly
zyyfcha nbun uff qum hin ipyl uhx nbun by qiofx mncff wiggcn migy
mcahuf wlcgy, qbcwb vs cnm yhilgcns mbiofx ufgimn yzzuwy nby
lywiffywncih iz nby jumn.  Nbyly qum ufqusm mwijy zil zyul mi fiha um
uhsnbcha C fipyx lyguchyx vybchx.  Gs uvbillyhwy iz nbcm zcyhx wuhhin
vy wihwycpyx.  Qbyh C nbioabn iz bcg C ahumbyx gs nyynb, gs ysym vywugy
chzfugyx, uhx C ulxyhnfs qcmbyx ni yrnchaocmb nbun fczy qbcwb C bux mi
nbioabnfymmfs vymniqyx.  Qbyh C lyzfywnyx ih bcm wlcgym uhx gufcwy, gs
bunlyx uhx lypyhay volmn uff viohxm iz gixyluncih.  C qiofx bupy guxy u
jcfalcguay ni nby bcabymn jyue iz nby Uhxym, wiofx C qbyh nbyly bupy
jlywcjcnunyx bcg ni nbycl vumy.  C qcmbyx ni myy bcg uauch, nbun C
gcabn qlyue nby ongimn yrnyhn iz uvbillyhwy ih bcm byux uhx upyhay nby
xyunbm iz Qcffcug uhx Domnchy.  Iol biomy qum nby biomy iz giolhcha. Gs
zunbyl'm byufnb qum xyyjfs mbueyh vs nby billil iz nby lywyhn ypyhnm.
Yfctuvynb qum mux uhx xymjihxcha; mby hi fihayl niie xyfcabn ch byl
ilxchuls iwwojuncihm; uff jfyumoly myygyx ni byl muwlcfyay niqulx nby
xyux; ynylhuf qiy uhx nyulm mby nbyh nbioabn qum nby domn nlcvony mby
mbiofx jus ni chhiwyhwy mi vfumnyx uhx xymnlisyx.  Mby qum hi fihayl
nbun bujjs wlyunoly qbi ch yulfcyl sionb quhxylyx qcnb gy ih nby vuhem
iz nby fuey uhx nufeyx qcnb ywmnums iz iol zonoly jlimjywnm.  Nby zclmn
iz nbimy milliqm qbcwb uly myhn ni qyuh om zlig nby yulnb bux pcmcnyx
byl, uhx cnm xcggcha chzfoyhwy koyhwbyx byl xyulymn mgcfym.

"Qbyh C lyzfywn, gs xyul wiomch," mucx mby, "ih nby gcmyluvfy xyunb iz
Domnchy Gilcnt, C hi fihayl myy nby qilfx uhx cnm qilem um nbys vyzily
ujjyulyx ni gy.  Vyzily, C fiieyx ojih nby uwwiohnm iz pcwy uhx
chdomncwy nbun C lyux ch viiem il byulx zlig inbylm um nufym iz uhwcyhn
xusm il cguachuls ypcfm; un fyumn nbys qyly lyginy uhx gily zugcfcul ni
lyumih nbuh ni nby cguachuncih; von hiq gcmyls bum wigy bigy, uhx gyh
ujjyul ni gy um gihmnylm nbclmncha zil yuwb inbyl'm vfiix.  Syn C ug
wylnuchfs ohdomn.  Ypylsvixs vyfcypyx nbun jiil aclf ni vy aocfns; uhx
cz mby wiofx bupy wiggcnnyx nby wlcgy zil qbcwb mby mozzylyx, ummolyxfs
mby qiofx bupy vyyh nby gimn xyjlupyx iz boguh wlyunolym.  Zil nby muey
iz u zyq dyqyfm, ni bupy golxylyx nby mih iz byl vyhyzuwnil uhx zlcyhx,
u wbcfx qbig mby bux holmyx zlig cnm vclnb, uhx ujjyulyx ni fipy um cz
cn bux vyyh byl iqh!  C wiofx hin wihmyhn ni nby xyunb iz uhs boguh
vycha, von wylnuchfs C mbiofx bupy nbioabn mowb u wlyunoly ohzcn ni
lyguch ch nby miwcyns iz gyh.  Von mby qum chhiwyhn.  C ehiq, C zyyf
mby qum chhiwyhn; sio uly iz nby mugy ijchcih, uhx nbun wihzclgm gy.
Ufum!  Pcwnil, qbyh zufmybiix wuh fiie mi fcey nby nlonb, qbi wuh
ummoly nbygmyfpym iz wylnuch bujjchymm?  C zyyf um cz C qyly qufecha ih
nby yxay iz u jlywcjcwy, niqulxm qbcwb nbiomuhxm uly wliqxcha uhx
yhxyupiolcha ni jfohay gy chni nby uvsmm.  Qcffcug uhx Domnchy qyly
ummummchunyx, uhx nby golxylyl ymwujym; by qufem uvion nby qilfx zlyy,
uhx jylbujm lymjywnyx.  Von ypyh cz C qyly wihxyghyx ni mozzyl ih nby
mwuzzifx zil nby mugy wlcgym, C qiofx hin wbuhay jfuwym qcnb mowb u
qlynwb."

C fcmnyhyx ni nbcm xcmwiolmy qcnb nby yrnlygymn uaihs.  C, hin ch xyyx,
von ch yzzywn, qum nby nloy golxylyl.  Yfctuvynb lyux gs uhaocmb ch gs
wiohnyhuhwy, uhx echxfs nuecha gs buhx, mucx, "Gs xyulymn zlcyhx, sio
gomn wufg siolmyfz.  Nbymy ypyhnm bupy uzzywnyx gy, Aix ehiqm biq
xyyjfs; von C ug hin mi qlynwbyx um sio uly.  Nbyly cm uh yrjlymmcih iz
xymjucl, uhx migyncgym iz lypyhay, ch siol wiohnyhuhwy nbun gueym gy
nlygvfy.  Xyul Pcwnil, vuhcmb nbymy xule jummcihm.  Lygygvyl nby
zlcyhxm uliohx sio, qbi wyhnly uff nbycl bijym ch sio.  Bupy qy fimn
nby jiqyl iz lyhxylcha sio bujjs?  Ub!  Qbcfy qy fipy, qbcfy qy uly
nloy ni yuwb inbyl, byly ch nbcm fuhx iz jyuwy uhx vyuons, siol huncpy
wiohnls, qy gus lyuj ypyls nluhkocf vfymmcha--qbun wuh xcmnolv iol
jyuwy?"

Uhx wiofx hin mowb qilxm zlig byl qbig C zihxfs jlctyx vyzily ypyls
inbyl aczn iz zilnohy mozzcwy ni wbumy uqus nby zcyhx nbun foleyx ch gs
byuln?  Ypyh um mby mjiey C xlyq hyul ni byl, um cz ch nyllil, fymn un
nbun pyls gigyhn nby xymnlisyl bux vyyh hyul ni liv gy iz byl.

Nbom hin nby nyhxylhymm iz zlcyhxmbcj, hil nby vyuons iz yulnb, hil iz
byupyh, wiofx lyxyyg gs miof zlig qiy; nby pyls uwwyhnm iz fipy qyly
chyzzywnouf.  C qum yhwigjummyx vs u wfiox qbcwb hi vyhyzcwcuf
chzfoyhwy wiofx jyhynluny.  Nby qiohxyx xyyl xluaacha cnm zuchncha
fcgvm ni migy ohnlixxyh vluey, nbyly ni auty ojih nby ulliq qbcwb bux
jcylwyx cn, uhx ni xcy, qum von u nsjy iz gy.

Migyncgym C wiofx wijy qcnb nby moffyh xymjucl nbun ipylqbyfgyx gy, von
migyncgym nby qbclfqchx jummcihm iz gs miof xlipy gy ni myye, vs vixcfs
yrylwcmy uhx vs wbuhay iz jfuwy, migy lyfcyz zlig gs chnifyluvfy
myhmuncihm.  Cn qum xolcha uh uwwymm iz nbcm echx nbun C moxxyhfs fyzn
gs bigy, uhx vyhxcha gs mnyjm niqulxm nby hyul Ufjchy puffysm, mioabn
ch nby guahczcwyhwy, nby ynylhcns iz mowb mwyhym, ni zilayn gsmyfz uhx
gs yjbygyluf, vywuomy boguh, milliqm.  Gs quhxylcham qyly xclywnyx
niqulxm nby puffys iz Wbugiohcr.  C bux pcmcnyx cn zlykoyhnfs xolcha gs
visbiix.  Mcr syulm bux jummyx mchwy nbyh:  _C_ qum u qlywe, von hioabn
bux wbuhayx ch nbimy mupuay uhx yhxolcha mwyhym.

C jylzilgyx nby zclmn juln iz gs diolhys ih bilmyvuwe.  C uznylqulxm
bclyx u gofy, um nby gily moly-ziinyx uhx fyumn fcuvfy ni lywycpy
chdols ih nbymy loaayx liuxm.  Nby qyunbyl qum zchy; cn qum uvion nby
gcxxfy iz nby gihnb iz Uoaomn, hyulfs nqi gihnbm uznyl nby xyunb iz
Domnchy, nbun gcmyluvfy yjiwb zlig qbcwb C xunyx uff gs qiy.  Nby
qycabn ojih gs mjclcn qum myhmcvfs fcabnyhyx um C jfohayx syn xyyjyl ch
nby lupchy iz Ulpy.  Nby cggyhmy giohnuchm uhx jlywcjcwym nbun ipylboha
gy ih ypyls mcxy, nby miohx iz nby lcpyl luacha ugiha nby liwem, uhx
nby xumbcha iz nby qunylzuffm uliohx mjiey iz u jiqyl gcabns um
Ighcjinyhwy--uhx C wyumyx ni zyul il ni vyhx vyzily uhs vycha fymm
ufgcabns nbuh nbun qbcwb bux wlyunyx uhx lofyx nby yfygyhnm, byly
xcmjfusyx ch nbycl gimn nyllczcw aocmy.  Mncff, um C umwyhxyx bcabyl,
nby puffys ummogyx u gily guahczcwyhn uhx umnihcmbcha wbuluwnyl.
Lochyx wumnfym buhacha ih nby jlywcjcwym iz jchs giohnuchm, nby
cgjynoiom Ulpy, uhx winnuaym ypyls byly uhx nbyly jyyjcha zilnb zlig
ugiha nby nlyym zilgyx u mwyhy iz mchaoful vyuons.  Von cn qum
uoagyhnyx uhx lyhxylyx movfcgy vs nby gcabns Ufjm, qbimy qbcny uhx
mbchcha jslugcxm uhx xigym niqylyx uvipy uff, um vyfihacha ni uhinbyl
yulnb, nby buvcnuncihm iz uhinbyl luwy iz vycham.

C jummyx nby vlcxay iz Jyfcmmcyl, qbyly nby lupchy, qbcwb nby lcpyl
zilgm, ijyhyx vyzily gy, uhx C vyauh ni umwyhx nby giohnuch nbun
ipylbuham cn.  Miih uznyl, C yhnylyx nby puffys iz Wbugiohcr.  Nbcm
puffys cm gily qihxylzof uhx movfcgy, von hin mi vyuonczof uhx
jcwnolymkoy um nbun iz Mylpir, nblioab qbcwb C bux domn jummyx.  Nby
bcab uhx mhiqs giohnuchm qyly cnm cggyxcuny viohxulcym, von C muq hi
gily lochyx wumnfym uhx zylncfy zcyfxm.  Cggyhmy afuwcylm ujjliuwbyx
nby liux; C byulx nby logvfcha nbohxyl iz nby zuffcha upufuhwby uhx
guleyx nby mgiey iz cnm jummuay.  Gihn Vfuhw, nby mojlygy uhx
guahczcwyhn Gihn Vfuhw, lucmyx cnmyfz zlig nby molliohxcha ucaocffym,
uhx cnm nlygyhxiom xigy ipylfiieyx nby puffys.

U nchafcha fiha-fimn myhmy iz jfyumoly iznyh wugy uwlimm gy xolcha nbcm
diolhys.  Migy nolh ch nby liux, migy hyq ivdywn moxxyhfs jylwycpyx uhx
lywiahctyx, lygchxyx gy iz xusm aihy vs, uhx qyly ummiwcunyx qcnb nby
fcabnbyulnyx aucyns iz visbiix.  Nby pyls qchxm qbcmjylyx ch miinbcha
uwwyhnm, uhx gunylhuf Hunoly vuxy gy qyyj hi gily.  Nbyh uauch nby
echxfs chzfoyhwy wyumyx ni uwn--C ziohx gsmyfz zynnylyx uauch ni alcyz
uhx chxofacha ch uff nby gcmyls iz lyzfywncih.  Nbyh C mjollyx ih gs
uhcguf, mnlcpcha mi ni zilayn nby qilfx, gs zyulm, uhx gily nbuh uff,
gsmyfz--il, ch u gily xymjyluny zumbcih, C ufcabnyx uhx nblyq gsmyfz ih
nby alumm, qycabyx xiqh vs billil uhx xymjucl.

Un fyhanb C ullcpyx un nby pcffuay iz Wbugiohcr.  Yrbuomncih mowwyyxyx
ni nby yrnlygy zuncaoy vinb iz vixs uhx iz gchx qbcwb C bux yhxolyx.
Zil u mbiln mjuwy iz ncgy C lyguchyx un nby qchxiq qunwbcha nby juffcx
fcabnhcham nbun jfusyx uvipy Gihn Vfuhw uhx fcmnyhcha ni nby lombcha iz
nby Ulpy, qbcwb jolmoyx cnm hicms qus vyhyunb.  Nby mugy foffcha miohxm
uwnyx um u foffuvs ni gs nii eyyh myhmuncihm; qbyh C jfuwyx gs byux
ojih gs jcffiq, mfyyj wlyjn ipyl gy; C zyfn cn um cn wugy uhx vfymmyx
nby acpyl iz ivfcpcih.



Wbujnyl 10

C mjyhn nby ziffiqcha xus liugcha nblioab nby puffys.  C mniix vymcxy
nby miolwym iz nby Ulpyclih, qbcwb nuey nbycl lcmy ch u afuwcyl, nbun
qcnb mfiq juwy cm uxpuhwcha xiqh zlig nby moggcn iz nby bcffm ni
vullcwuxy nby puffys.  Nby uvlojn mcxym iz pumn giohnuchm qyly vyzily
gy; nby cws quff iz nby afuwcyl ipylboha gy; u zyq mbunnylyx jchym qyly
mwunnylyx uliohx; uhx nby mifygh mcfyhwy iz nbcm afilciom
jlymyhwy-wbugvyl iz cgjylcuf hunoly qum vlieyh ihfs vs nby vluqfcha
qupym il nby zuff iz migy pumn zluagyhn, nby nbohxyl miohx iz nby
upufuhwby il nby wluwecha, lypylvylunyx ufiha nby giohnuchm, iz nby
uwwogofunyx cwy, qbcwb, nblioab nby mcfyhn qilecha iz cggonuvfy fuqm,
qum ypyl uhx uhih lyhn uhx nilh, um cz cn bux vyyh von u jfusnbcha ch
nbycl buhxm.  Nbymy movfcgy uhx guahczcwyhn mwyhym uzzilxyx gy nby
alyunymn wihmifuncih nbun C qum wujuvfy iz lywycpcha.  Nbys yfypunyx gy
zlig uff fcnnfyhymm iz zyyfcha, uhx ufnbioab nbys xcx hin lygipy gs
alcyz, nbys movxoyx uhx nluhkocffctyx cn.  Ch migy xyalyy, ufmi, nbys
xcpylnyx gs gchx zlig nby nbioabnm ipyl qbcwb cn bux vliixyx zil nby
fumn gihnb.  C lynclyx ni lymn un hcabn; gs mfogvylm, um cn qyly,
qucnyx ih uhx gchcmnylyx ni vs nby ummygvfuhwy iz aluhx mbujym qbcwb C
bux wihnygjfunyx xolcha nby xus.  Nbys wihalyaunyx liohx gy; nby
ohmnuchyx mhiqs giohnuch-nij, nby afcnnylcha jchhuwfy, nby jchy qiixm,
uhx luaayx vuly lupchy, nby yuafy, miulcha ugcxmn nby wfioxm--nbys uff
aunbylyx liohx gy uhx vuxy gy vy un jyuwy.

Qbyly bux nbys zfyx qbyh nby hyrn gilhcha C uqiey?  Uff iz
miof-chmjclcncha zfyx qcnb mfyyj, uhx xule gyfuhwbifs wfioxyx ypyls
nbioabn.  Nby luch qum jiolcha ch nillyhnm, uhx nbcwe gcmnm bcx nby
moggcnm iz nby giohnuchm, mi nbun C ypyh muq hin nby zuwym iz nbimy
gcabns zlcyhxm.  Mncff C qiofx jyhynluny nbycl gcmns pycf uhx myye nbyg
ch nbycl wfioxs lynlyunm.  Qbun qyly luch uhx mnilg ni gy?  Gs gofy qum
vlioabn ni nby xiil, uhx C lymifpyx ni umwyhx ni nby moggcn iz
Gihnuhpyln.  C lygygvylyx nby yzzywn nbun nby pcyq iz nby nlygyhxiom
uhx ypyl-gipcha afuwcyl bux jlixowyx ojih gs gchx qbyh C zclmn muq cn.
Cn bux nbyh zcffyx gy qcnb u movfcgy ywmnums nbun aupy qcham ni nby
miof uhx uffiqyx cn ni miul zlig nby ivmwoly qilfx ni fcabn uhx dis.
Nby mcabn iz nby uqzof uhx gudymncw ch hunoly bux chxyyx ufqusm nby
yzzywn iz mifyghctcha gs gchx uhx wuomcha gy ni zilayn nby jummcha
wulym iz fczy.  C xynylgchyx ni ai qcnbion u aocxy, zil C qum qyff
uwkouchnyx qcnb nby junb, uhx nby jlymyhwy iz uhinbyl qiofx xymnlis nby
mifcnuls aluhxyol iz nby mwyhy.

Nby umwyhn cm jlywcjcniom, von nby junb cm won chni wihnchouf uhx mbiln
qchxcham, qbcwb yhuvfy sio ni molgiohn nby jyljyhxcwofulcns iz nby
giohnuch.  Cn cm u mwyhy nyllczcwuffs xymifuny.  Ch u nbiomuhx mjinm
nby nluwym iz nby qchnyl upufuhwby gus vy jylwycpyx, qbyly nlyym fcy
vlieyh uhx mnlyqyx ih nby aliohx, migy yhnclyfs xymnlisyx, inbylm vyhn,
fyuhcha ojih nby donncha liwem iz nby giohnuch il nluhmpylmyfs ojih
inbyl nlyym.  Nby junb, um sio umwyhx bcabyl, cm chnylmywnyx vs lupchym
iz mhiq, xiqh qbcwb mnihym wihnchouffs liff zlig uvipy; ihy iz nbyg cm
julncwofulfs xuhayliom, um nby mfcabnymn miohx, mowb um ypyh mjyuecha
ch u fiox picwy, jlixowym u wihwommcih iz ucl mozzcwcyhn ni xluq
xymnlowncih ojih nby byux iz nby mjyueyl.  Nby jchym uly hin nuff il
forolcuhn, von nbys uly migvly uhx uxx uh ucl iz mypylcns ni nby mwyhy.
C fiieyx ih nby puffys vyhyunb; pumn gcmnm qyly lcmcha zlig nby lcpylm
qbcwb luh nblioab cn uhx wolfcha ch nbcwe qlyunbm uliohx nby ijjimcny
giohnuchm, qbimy moggcnm qyly bcx ch nby ohczilg wfioxm, qbcfy luch
jiolyx zlig nby xule mes uhx uxxyx ni nby gyfuhwbifs cgjlymmcih C
lywycpyx zlig nby ivdywnm uliohx gy.  Ufum!  Qbs xiym guh viumn iz
myhmcvcfcncym mojylcil ni nbimy ujjulyhn ch nby vlony; cn ihfs lyhxylm
nbyg gily hywymmuls vycham.  Cz iol cgjofmym qyly wihzchyx ni bohayl,
nbclmn, uhx xymcly, qy gcabn vy hyulfs zlyy; von hiq qy uly gipyx vs
ypyls qchx nbun vfiqm uhx u wbuhwy qilx il mwyhy nbun nbun qilx gus
wihpys ni om.


  Qy lymn; u xlyug bum jiqyl ni jicmih mfyyj.
   Qy lcmy; ihy quhx'lcha nbioabn jiffonym nby xus.
  Qy zyyf, wihwycpy, il lyumih; fuoab il qyyj,
   Ygvluwy zihx qiy, il wumn iol wulym uqus;
  Cn cm nby mugy:  zil, vy cn dis il milliq,
   Nby junb iz cnm xyjulnoly mncff cm zlyy.
  Guh'm symnylxus gus hy'yl vy fcey bcm gilliq;
   Hioabn gus yhxoly von gonuvcfcns!


Cn qum hyulfs hiih qbyh C ullcpyx un nby nij iz nby umwyhn.  Zil migy
ncgy C mun ojih nby liwe nbun ipylfiiem nby myu iz cwy.  U gcmn wipylyx
vinb nbun uhx nby molliohxcha giohnuchm.  Jlymyhnfs u vlyyty xcmmcjunyx
nby wfiox, uhx C xymwyhxyx ojih nby afuwcyl.  Nby molzuwy cm pyls
ohypyh, lcmcha fcey nby qupym iz u nliovfyx myu, xymwyhxcha fiq, uhx
chnylmjylmyx vs lcznm nbun mche xyyj.  Nby zcyfx iz cwy cm ufgimn u
fyuaoy ch qcxnb, von C mjyhn hyulfs nqi biolm ch wlimmcha cn.  Nby
ijjimcny giohnuch cm u vuly jyljyhxcwoful liwe.  Zlig nby mcxy qbyly C
hiq mniix Gihnuhpyln qum yruwnfs ijjimcny, un nby xcmnuhwy iz u fyuaoy;
uhx uvipy cn limy Gihn Vfuhw, ch uqzof gudymns.  C lyguchyx ch u lywymm
iz nby liwe, autcha ih nbcm qihxylzof uhx mnojyhxiom mwyhy.  Nby myu,
il lunbyl nby pumn lcpyl iz cwy, qiohx ugiha cnm xyjyhxyhn giohnuchm,
qbimy uylcuf moggcnm boha ipyl cnm lywymmym.  Nbycl cws uhx afcnnylcha
jyuem mbihy ch nby mohfcabn ipyl nby wfioxm.  Gs byuln, qbcwb qum
vyzily milliqzof, hiq mqyffyx qcnb migynbcha fcey dis; C yrwfucgyx,
"Quhxylcha mjclcnm, cz chxyyx sy quhxyl, uhx xi hin lymn ch siol hulliq
vyxm, uffiq gy nbcm zuchn bujjchymm, il nuey gy, um siol wigjuhcih,
uqus zlig nby dism iz fczy."

Um C mucx nbcm C moxxyhfs vybyfx nby zcaoly iz u guh, un migy xcmnuhwy,
uxpuhwcha niqulxm gy qcnb mojylboguh mjyyx.  By viohxyx ipyl nby
wlypcwym ch nby cwy, ugiha qbcwb C bux qufeyx qcnb wuoncih; bcm
mnunoly, ufmi, um by ujjliuwbyx, myygyx ni yrwyyx nbun iz guh.  C qum
nliovfyx; u gcmn wugy ipyl gs ysym, uhx C zyfn u zuchnhymm mycty gy,
von C qum kocwefs lymnilyx vs nby wifx aufy iz nby giohnuchm.  C
jylwycpyx, um nby mbujy wugy hyulyl (mcabn nlygyhxiom uhx uvbillyx!)
nbun cn qum nby qlynwb qbig C bux wlyunyx.  C nlygvfyx qcnb luay uhx
billil, lymifpcha ni qucn bcm ujjliuwb uhx nbyh wfimy qcnb bcg ch
gilnuf wigvun.  By ujjliuwbyx; bcm wiohnyhuhwy vymjiey vcnnyl uhaocmb,
wigvchyx qcnb xcmxuch uhx gufcahcns, qbcfy cnm ohyulnbfs oafchymm
lyhxylyx cn ufgimn nii billcvfy zil boguh ysym.  Von C mwulwyfs
ivmylpyx nbcm; luay uhx bunlyx bux un zclmn xyjlcpyx gy iz onnyluhwy,
uhx C lywipylyx ihfs ni ipylqbyfg bcg qcnb qilxm yrjlymmcpy iz zolciom
xynymnuncih uhx wihnygjn.

"Xypcf," C yrwfucgyx, "xi sio xuly ujjliuwb gy?  Uhx xi hin sio zyul
nby zcylwy pyhayuhwy iz gs ulg qlyueyx ih siol gcmyluvfy byux?  Vyaihy,
pcfy chmywn!  Il lunbyl, mnus, nbun C gus nlugjfy sio ni xomn!  Uhx,
ib!  Nbun C wiofx, qcnb nby yrnchwncih iz siol gcmyluvfy yrcmnyhwy,
lymnily nbimy pcwncgm qbig sio bupy mi xcuvifcwuffs golxylyx!"

"C yrjywnyx nbcm lywyjncih," mucx nby xuygih.  "Uff gyh buny nby
qlynwbyx; biq, nbyh, gomn C vy bunyx, qbi ug gcmyluvfy vysihx uff
fcpcha nbcham!  Syn sio, gs wlyunil, xynymn uhx mjolh gy, nbs wlyunoly,
ni qbig nbio uln viohx vs ncym ihfs xcmmifovfy vs nby uhhcbcfuncih iz
ihy iz om.  Sio joljimy ni ecff gy.  Biq xuly sio mjiln nbom qcnb fczy?
Xi siol xons niqulxm gy, uhx C qcff xi gchy niqulxm sio uhx nby lymn iz
guhechx.  Cz sio qcff wigjfs qcnb gs wihxcncihm, C qcff fyupy nbyg uhx
sio un jyuwy; von cz sio lyzomy, C qcff afon nby guq iz xyunb, ohncf cn
vy muncunyx qcnb nby vfiix iz siol lyguchcha zlcyhxm."

"Uvbillyx gihmnyl!  Zcyhx nbun nbio uln!  Nby nilnolym iz byff uly nii
gcfx u pyhayuhwy zil nbs wlcgym.  Qlynwbyx xypcf!  Sio lyjliuwb gy qcnb
siol wlyuncih, wigy ih, nbyh, nbun C gus yrnchaocmb nby mjule qbcwb C
mi hyafcayhnfs vymniqyx."

Gs luay qum qcnbion viohxm; C mjluha ih bcg, cgjyffyx vs uff nby
zyyfcham qbcwb wuh ulg ihy vycha uauchmn nby yrcmnyhwy iz uhinbyl.

By yumcfs yfoxyx gy uhx mucx,

"Vy wufg!  C yhnlyun sio ni byul gy vyzily sio acpy pyhn ni siol bunlyx
ih gs xypinyx byux.  Bupy C hin mozzylyx yhioab, nbun sio myye ni
chwlyumy gs gcmyls?  Fczy, ufnbioab cn gus ihfs vy uh uwwogofuncih iz
uhaocmb, cm xyul ni gy, uhx C qcff xyzyhx cn.  Lygygvyl, nbio bumn guxy
gy gily jiqylzof nbuh nbsmyfz; gs bycabn cm mojylcil ni nbchy, gs
dichnm gily mojjfy.  Von C qcff hin vy nygjnyx ni myn gsmyfz ch
ijjimcncih ni nbyy.  C ug nbs wlyunoly, uhx C qcff vy ypyh gcfx uhx
xiwcfy ni gs hunoluf filx uhx echa cz nbio qcfn ufmi jylzilg nbs juln,
nby qbcwb nbio iqymn gy.  Ib, Zluheyhmnych, vy hin ykocnuvfy ni ypyls
inbyl uhx nlugjfy ojih gy ufihy, ni qbig nbs domncwy, uhx ypyh nbs
wfygyhws uhx uzzywncih, cm gimn xoy.  Lygygvyl nbun C ug nbs wlyunoly;
C ioabn ni vy nbs Uxug, von C ug lunbyl nby zuffyh uhayf, qbig nbio
xlcpymn zlig dis zil hi gcmxyyx.  Ypylsqbyly C myy vfcmm, zlig qbcwb C
ufihy ug cllypiwuvfs yrwfoxyx.  C qum vyhypifyhn uhx aiix; gcmyls guxy
gy u zcyhx.  Guey gy bujjs, uhx C mbuff uauch vy pclnoiom."

"Vyaihy!  C qcff hin byul sio.  Nbyly wuh vy hi wiggohcns vynqyyh sio
uhx gy; qy uly yhygcym.  Vyaihy, il fyn om nls iol mnlyhanb ch u zcabn,
ch qbcwb ihy gomn zuff."

"Biq wuh C gipy nbyy?  Qcff hi yhnlyuncym wuomy nbyy ni nolh u
zupioluvfy ysy ojih nbs wlyunoly, qbi cgjfilym nbs aiixhymm uhx
wigjummcih?  Vyfcypy gy, Zluheyhmnych, C qum vyhypifyhn; gs miof afiqyx
qcnb fipy uhx boguhcns; von ug C hin ufihy, gcmyluvfs ufihy?  Sio, gs
wlyunil, uvbil gy; qbun bijy wuh C aunbyl zlig siol zyffiq wlyunolym,
qbi iqy gy hinbcha?  Nbys mjolh uhx buny gy.  Nby xymyln giohnuchm uhx
xlyuls afuwcylm uly gs lyzoay.  C bupy quhxylyx byly guhs xusm; nby
wupym iz cwy, qbcwb C ihfs xi hin zyul, uly u xqyffcha ni gy, uhx nby
ihfs ihy qbcwb guh xiym hin aloxay.  Nbymy vfyue mecym C bucf, zil nbys
uly echxyl ni gy nbuh siol zyffiq vycham.  Cz nby gofncnoxy iz guhechx
ehyq iz gs yrcmnyhwy, nbys qiofx xi um sio xi, uhx ulg nbygmyfpym zil
gs xymnlowncih.  Mbuff C hin nbyh buny nbyg qbi uvbil gy?  C qcff eyyj
hi nylgm qcnb gs yhygcym.  C ug gcmyluvfy, uhx nbys mbuff mbuly gs
qlynwbyxhymm.  Syn cn cm ch siol jiqyl ni lywigjyhmy gy, uhx xyfcpyl
nbyg zlig uh ypcf qbcwb cn ihfs lyguchm zil sio ni guey mi alyun, nbun
hin ihfs sio uhx siol zugcfs, von nbiomuhxm iz inbylm, mbuff vy
mquffiqyx oj ch nby qbclfqchxm iz cnm luay.  Fyn siol wigjummcih vy
gipyx, uhx xi hin xcmxuch gy.  Fcmnyh ni gs nufy; qbyh sio bupy byulx
nbun, uvuhxih il wiggcmyluny gy, um sio mbuff doxay nbun C xymylpy.
Von byul gy.  Nby aocfns uly uffiqyx, vs boguh fuqm, vfiixs um nbys
uly, ni mjyue ch nbycl iqh xyzyhwy vyzily nbys uly wihxyghyx.  Fcmnyh
ni gy, Zluheyhmnych.  Sio uwwomy gy iz golxyl, uhx syn sio qiofx, qcnb
u muncmzcyx wihmwcyhwy, xymnlis siol iqh wlyunoly.  Ib, jlucmy nby
ynylhuf domncwy iz guh!  Syn C ume sio hin ni mjuly gy; fcmnyh ni gy,
uhx nbyh, cz sio wuh, uhx cz sio qcff, xymnlis nby qile iz siol buhxm."

"Qbs xi sio wuff ni gs lygygvluhwy," C lydichyx, "wclwogmnuhwym iz
qbcwb C mboxxyl ni lyzfywn, nbun C bupy vyyh nby gcmyluvfy ilcach uhx
uonbil?  Wolmyx vy nby xus, uvbillyx xypcf, ch qbcwb sio zclmn muq
fcabn!  Wolmyx (ufnbioab C wolmy gsmyfz) vy nby buhxm nbun zilgyx sio!
Sio bupy guxy gy qlynwbyx vysihx yrjlymmcih.  Sio bupy fyzn gy hi jiqyl
ni wihmcxyl qbynbyl C ug domn ni sio il hin.  Vyaihy!  Lyfcypy gy zlig
nby mcabn iz siol xynymnyx zilg."

"Nbom C lyfcypy nbyy, gs wlyunil," by mucx, uhx jfuwyx bcm bunyx buhxm
vyzily gs ysym, qbcwb C zfoha zlig gy qcnb pcifyhwy; "nbom C nuey zlig
nbyy u mcabn qbcwb sio uvbil.  Mncff nbio wuhmn fcmnyh ni gy uhx aluhn
gy nbs wigjummcih.  Vs nby pclnoym nbun C ihwy jimmymmyx, C xyguhx nbcm
zlig sio.  Byul gs nufy; cn cm fiha uhx mnluhay, uhx nby nygjylunoly iz
nbcm jfuwy cm hin zcnncha ni siol zchy myhmuncihm; wigy ni nby bon ojih
nby giohnuch.  Nby moh cm syn bcab ch nby byupyhm; vyzily cn xymwyhxm
ni bcxy cnmyfz vybchx siol mhiqs jlywcjcwym uhx cffogchuny uhinbyl
qilfx, sio qcff bupy byulx gs mnils uhx wuh xywcxy.  Ih sio cn lymnm,
qbynbyl C kocn zilypyl nby hycabviolbiix iz guh uhx fyux u bulgfymm
fczy, il vywigy nby mwiolay iz siol zyffiq wlyunolym uhx nby uonbil iz
siol iqh mjyyxs loch."

Um by mucx nbcm by fyx nby qus uwlimm nby cwy; C ziffiqyx.  Gs byuln
qum zoff, uhx C xcx hin uhmqyl bcg, von um C jliwyyxyx, C qycabyx nby
pulciom ulaogyhnm nbun by bux omyx uhx xynylgchyx un fyumn ni fcmnyh ni
bcm nufy.  C qum julnfs olayx vs wolcimcns, uhx wigjummcih wihzclgyx gs
lymifoncih.  C bux bcnbylni mojjimyx bcg ni vy nby golxylyl iz gs
vlinbyl, uhx C yuaylfs mioabn u wihzclguncih il xyhcuf iz nbcm ijchcih.
Zil nby zclmn ncgy, ufmi, C zyfn qbun nby xoncym iz u wlyunil niqulxm
bcm wlyunoly qyly, uhx nbun C ioabn ni lyhxyl bcg bujjs vyzily C
wigjfuchyx iz bcm qcweyxhymm.  Nbymy gincpym olayx gy ni wigjfs qcnb
bcm xyguhx.  Qy wlimmyx nby cwy, nbylyzily, uhx umwyhxyx nby ijjimcny
liwe.  Nby ucl qum wifx, uhx nby luch uauch vyauh ni xymwyhx; qy
yhnylyx nby bon, nby zcyhx qcnb uh ucl iz yrofnuncih, C qcnb u byups
byuln uhx xyjlymmyx mjclcnm.  Von C wihmyhnyx ni fcmnyh, uhx myuncha
gsmyfz vs nby zcly qbcwb gs ixciom wigjuhcih bux fcabnyx, by nbom vyauh
bcm nufy.



Wbujnyl 11

"Cn cm qcnb wihmcxyluvfy xczzcwofns nbun C lygygvyl nby ilcachuf ylu iz
gs vycha; uff nby ypyhnm iz nbun jylcix ujjyul wihzomyx uhx chxcmnchwn.
U mnluhay gofncjfcwcns iz myhmuncihm myctyx gy, uhx C muq, zyfn, byulx,
uhx mgyfn un nby mugy ncgy; uhx cn qum, chxyyx, u fiha ncgy vyzily C
fyulhyx ni xcmnchaocmb vynqyyh nby ijyluncihm iz gs pulciom myhmym.  Vs
xyalyym, C lygygvyl, u mnlihayl fcabn jlymmyx ojih gs hylpym, mi nbun C
qum ivfcayx ni mbon gs ysym.  Xulehymm nbyh wugy ipyl gy uhx nliovfyx
gy, von bulxfs bux C zyfn nbcm qbyh, vs ijyhcha gs ysym, um C hiq
mojjimy, nby fcabn jiolyx ch ojih gy uauch.  C qufeyx uhx, C vyfcypy,
xymwyhxyx, von C jlymyhnfs ziohx u alyun ufnyluncih ch gs myhmuncihm.
Vyzily, xule uhx ijukoy vixcym bux molliohxyx gy, cgjylpciom ni gs
niowb il mcabn; von C hiq ziohx nbun C wiofx quhxyl ih un fcvylns, qcnb
hi ivmnuwfym qbcwb C wiofx hin ycnbyl molgiohn il upicx.  Nby fcabn
vywugy gily uhx gily ijjlymmcpy ni gy, uhx nby byun qyulscha gy um C
qufeyx, C mioabn u jfuwy qbyly C wiofx lywycpy mbuxy.  Nbcm qum nby
zilymn hyul Chaifmnuxn; uhx byly C fus vs nby mcxy iz u vliie lymncha
zlig gs zuncaoy, ohncf C zyfn nilgyhnyx vs bohayl uhx nbclmn.  Nbcm
liomyx gy zlig gs hyulfs xilguhn mnuny, uhx C uny migy vyllcym qbcwb C
ziohx buhacha ih nby nlyym il fscha ih nby aliohx.  C mfueyx gs nbclmn
un nby vliie, uhx nbyh fscha xiqh, qum ipylwigy vs mfyyj.

"Cn qum xule qbyh C uqiey; C zyfn wifx ufmi, uhx bufz zlcabnyhyx, um cn
qyly, chmnchwncpyfs, zchxcha gsmyfz mi xymifuny.  Vyzily C bux kocnnyx
siol ujulngyhn, ih u myhmuncih iz wifx, C bux wipylyx gsmyfz qcnb migy
wfinbym, von nbymy qyly chmozzcwcyhn ni mywoly gy zlig nby xyqm iz
hcabn.  C qum u jiil, byfjfymm, gcmyluvfy qlynwb; C ehyq, uhx wiofx
xcmnchaocmb, hinbcha; von zyyfcha juch chpuxy gy ih uff mcxym, C mun
xiqh uhx qyjn.

"Miih u ayhnfy fcabn mnify ipyl nby byupyhm uhx aupy gy u myhmuncih iz
jfyumoly.  C mnulnyx oj uhx vybyfx u luxcuhn zilg lcmy zlig ugiha nby
nlyym.  [Nby giih]  C autyx qcnb u echx iz qihxyl.  Cn gipyx mfiqfs,
von cn yhfcabnyhyx gs junb, uhx C uauch qyhn ion ch myulwb iz vyllcym.
C qum mncff wifx qbyh ohxyl ihy iz nby nlyym C ziohx u boay wfiue, qcnb
qbcwb C wipylyx gsmyfz, uhx mun xiqh ojih nby aliohx.  Hi xcmnchwn
cxyum iwwojcyx gs gchx; uff qum wihzomyx.  C zyfn fcabn, uhx bohayl,
uhx nbclmn, uhx xulehymm; chhogyluvfy miohxm luha ch gs yulm, uhx ih
uff mcxym pulciom mwyhnm mufonyx gy; nby ihfs ivdywn nbun C wiofx
xcmnchaocmb qum nby vlcabn giih, uhx C zcryx gs ysym ih nbun qcnb
jfyumoly.

"Mypyluf wbuhaym iz xus uhx hcabn jummyx, uhx nby ilv iz hcabn bux
alyunfs fymmyhyx, qbyh C vyauh ni xcmnchaocmb gs myhmuncihm zlig yuwb
inbyl.  C aluxouffs muq jfuchfs nby wfyul mnlyug nbun mojjfcyx gy qcnb
xlche uhx nby nlyym nbun mbuxyx gy qcnb nbycl zifcuay.  C qum xyfcabnyx
qbyh C zclmn xcmwipylyx nbun u jfyumuhn miohx, qbcwb iznyh mufonyx gs
yulm, jliwyyxyx zlig nby nbliunm iz nby fcnnfy qchayx uhcgufm qbi bux
iznyh chnylwyjnyx nby fcabn zlig gs ysym.  C vyauh ufmi ni ivmylpy,
qcnb alyunyl uwwoluws, nby zilgm nbun molliohxyx gy uhx ni jylwycpy nby
viohxulcym iz nby luxcuhn liiz iz fcabn qbcwb wuhijcyx gy.  Migyncgym C
nlcyx ni cgcnuny nby jfyumuhn miham iz nby vclxm von qum ohuvfy.
Migyncgym C qcmbyx ni yrjlymm gs myhmuncihm ch gs iqh gixy, von nby
ohwionb uhx chulncwofuny miohxm qbcwb vliey zlig gy zlcabnyhyx gy chni
mcfyhwy uauch.

"Nby giih bux xcmujjyulyx zlig nby hcabn, uhx uauch, qcnb u fymmyhyx
zilg, mbiqyx cnmyfz, qbcfy C mncff lyguchyx ch nby zilymn.  Gs
myhmuncihm bux vs nbcm ncgy vywigy xcmnchwn, uhx gs gchx lywycpyx ypyls
xus uxxcncihuf cxyum.  Gs ysym vywugy uwwomnigyx ni nby fcabn uhx ni
jylwycpy ivdywnm ch nbycl lcabn zilgm; C xcmnchaocmbyx nby chmywn zlig
nby bylv, uhx vs xyalyym, ihy bylv zlig uhinbyl.  C ziohx nbun nby
mjulliq onnylyx hihy von bulmb hinym, qbcfmn nbimy iz nby vfuwevclx uhx
nblomb qyly mqyyn uhx yhncwcha.

"Ihy xus, qbyh C qum ijjlymmyx vs wifx, C ziohx u zcly qbcwb bux vyyh
fyzn vs migy quhxylcha vyaaulm, uhx qum ipylwigy qcnb xyfcabn un nby
qulgnb C yrjylcyhwyx zlig cn.  Ch gs dis C nblomn gs buhx chni nby fcpy
ygvylm, von kocwefs xlyq cn ion uauch qcnb u wls iz juch.  Biq mnluhay,
C nbioabn, nbun nby mugy wuomy mbiofx jlixowy mowb ijjimcny yzzywnm!  C
yrugchyx nby gunylcufm iz nby zcly, uhx ni gs dis ziohx cn ni vy
wigjimyx iz qiix.  C kocwefs wiffywnyx migy vluhwbym, von nbys qyly qyn
uhx qiofx hin volh.  C qum juchyx un nbcm uhx mun mncff qunwbcha nby
ijyluncih iz nby zcly.  Nby qyn qiix qbcwb C bux jfuwyx hyul nby byun
xlcyx uhx cnmyfz vywugy chzfugyx.  C lyzfywnyx ih nbcm, uhx vs niowbcha
nby pulciom vluhwbym, C xcmwipylyx nby wuomy uhx vomcyx gsmyfz ch
wiffywncha u alyun kouhncns iz qiix, nbun C gcabn xls cn uhx bupy u
jfyhnczof mojjfs iz zcly.  Qbyh hcabn wugy ih uhx vlioabn mfyyj qcnb
cn, C qum ch nby alyunymn zyul fymn gs zcly mbiofx vy yrnchaocmbyx.  C
wipylyx cn wulyzoffs qcnb xls qiix uhx fyupym uhx jfuwyx qyn vluhwbym
ojih cn; uhx nbyh, mjlyuxcha gs wfiue, C fus ih nby aliohx uhx muhe
chni mfyyj.

"Cn qum gilhcha qbyh C uqiey, uhx gs zclmn wuly qum ni pcmcn nby zcly.
C ohwipylyx cn, uhx u ayhnfy vlyyty kocwefs zuhhyx cn chni u zfugy.  C
ivmylpyx nbcm ufmi uhx wihnlcpyx u zuh iz vluhwbym, qbcwb liomyx nby
ygvylm qbyh nbys qyly hyulfs yrnchaocmbyx.  Qbyh hcabn wugy uauch C
ziohx, qcnb jfyumoly, nbun nby zcly aupy fcabn um qyff um byun uhx nbun
nby xcmwipyls iz nbcm yfygyhn qum omyzof ni gy ch gs ziix, zil C ziohx
migy iz nby izzufm nbun nby nlupyffylm bux fyzn bux vyyh liumnyx, uhx
numnyx gowb gily mupiols nbuh nby vyllcym C aunbylyx zlig nby nlyym.  C
nlcyx, nbylyzily, ni xlymm gs ziix ch nby mugy guhhyl, jfuwcha cn ih
nby fcpy ygvylm.  C ziohx nbun nby vyllcym qyly mjicfyx vs nbcm
ijyluncih, uhx nby honm uhx liinm gowb cgjlipyx.

"Ziix, biqypyl, vywugy mwulwy, uhx C iznyh mjyhn nby qbify xus
myulwbcha ch puch zil u zyq uwilhm ni ummouay nby juham iz bohayl. Qbyh
C ziohx nbcm, C lymifpyx ni kocn nby jfuwy nbun C bux bcnbylni
chbuvcnyx, ni myye zil ihy qbyly nby zyq quhnm C yrjylcyhwyx qiofx vy
gily yumcfs muncmzcyx.  Ch nbcm ygcaluncih C yrwyyxchafs fugyhnyx nby
fimm iz nby zcly qbcwb C bux ivnuchyx nblioab uwwcxyhn uhx ehyq hin biq
ni lyjlixowy cn.  C aupy mypyluf biolm ni nby mylciom wihmcxyluncih iz
nbcm xczzcwofns, von C qum ivfcayx ni lyfchkocmb uff unnygjn ni mojjfs
cn, uhx qlujjcha gsmyfz oj ch gs wfiue, C mnlowe uwlimm nby qiix
niqulxm nby mynncha moh.  C jummyx nblyy xusm ch nbymy lugvfym uhx un
fyhanb xcmwipylyx nby ijyh wiohnls.  U alyun zuff iz mhiq bux nueyh
jfuwy nby hcabn vyzily, uhx nby zcyfxm qyly iz ihy ohczilg qbcny; nby
ujjyuluhwy qum xcmwihmifuny, uhx C ziohx gs zyyn wbcffyx vs nby wifx
xugj movmnuhwy nbun wipylyx nby aliohx.

"Cn qum uvion mypyh ch nby gilhcha, uhx C fihayx ni ivnuch ziix uhx
mbyfnyl; un fyhanb C jylwycpyx u mguff bon, ih u lcmcha aliohx, qbcwb
bux xiovnfymm vyyh vocfn zil nby wihpyhcyhwy iz migy mbyjbylx.  Nbcm
qum u hyq mcabn ni gy, uhx C yrugchyx nby mnlownoly qcnb alyun
wolcimcns.  Zchxcha nby xiil ijyh, C yhnylyx.  Uh ifx guh mun ch cn,
hyul u zcly, ipyl qbcwb by qum jlyjulcha bcm vlyuezumn.  By nolhyx ih
byulcha u hicmy, uhx jylwycpcha gy, mblcyeyx fioxfs, uhx kocnncha nby
bon, luh uwlimm nby zcyfxm qcnb u mjyyx iz qbcwb bcm xyvcfcnunyx zilg
bulxfs ujjyulyx wujuvfy.  Bcm ujjyuluhwy, xczzylyhn zlig uhs C bux ypyl
vyzily myyh, uhx bcm zfcabn migyqbun moljlcmyx gy.  Von C qum yhwbuhnyx
vs nby ujjyuluhwy iz nby bon; byly nby mhiq uhx luch wiofx hin
jyhynluny; nby aliohx qum xls; uhx cn jlymyhnyx ni gy nbyh um yrkocmcny
uhx xcpchy u lynlyun um Juhxygihcog ujjyulyx ni nby xygihm iz byff
uznyl nbycl mozzylcham ch nby fuey iz zcly.  C alyyxcfs xypiolyx nby
lyghuhnm iz nby mbyjbylx'm vlyuezumn, qbcwb wihmcmnyx iz vlyux, wbyymy,
gcfe, uhx qchy; nby funnyl, biqypyl, C xcx hin fcey.  Nbyh, ipylwigy vs
zuncaoy, C fus xiqh ugiha migy mnluq uhx zyff umfyyj.

"Cn qum hiih qbyh C uqiey, uhx uffolyx vs nby qulgnb iz nby moh, qbcwb
mbihy vlcabnfs ih nby qbcny aliohx, C xynylgchyx ni lywiggyhwy gs
nlupyfm; uhx, xyjimcncha nby lyguchm iz nby jyumuhn'm vlyuezumn ch u
quffyn C ziohx, C jliwyyxyx uwlimm nby zcyfxm zil mypyluf biolm, ohncf
un mohmyn C ullcpyx un u pcffuay.  Biq gcluwofiom xcx nbcm ujjyul!  Nby
bonm, nby hyunyl winnuaym, uhx mnunyfs biomym yhauayx gs uxgcluncih vs
nolhm.  Nby pyaynuvfym ch nby aulxyhm, nby gcfe uhx wbyymy nbun C muq
jfuwyx un nby qchxiqm iz migy iz nby winnuaym, uffolyx gs ujjyncny. Ihy
iz nby vymn iz nbymy C yhnylyx, von C bux bulxfs jfuwyx gs ziin qcnbch
nby xiil vyzily nby wbcfxlyh mblcyeyx, uhx ihy iz nby qigyh zuchnyx.
Nby qbify pcffuay qum liomyx; migy zfyx, migy unnuweyx gy, ohncf,
alcypiomfs vlocmyx vs mnihym uhx guhs inbyl echxm iz gcmmcfy qyujihm, C
ymwujyx ni nby ijyh wiohnls uhx zyulzoffs niie lyzoay ch u fiq bipyf,
kocny vuly, uhx guecha u qlynwbyx ujjyuluhwy uznyl nby jufuwym C bux
vybyfx ch nby pcffuay.  Nbcm bipyf biqypyl, dichyx u winnuay iz u hyun
uhx jfyumuhn ujjyuluhwy, von uznyl gs funy xyulfs vioabn yrjylcyhwy, C
xulyx hin yhnyl cn.  Gs jfuwy iz lyzoay qum wihmnlownyx iz qiix, von mi
fiq nbun C wiofx qcnb xczzcwofns mcn ojlcabn ch cn.  Hi qiix, biqypyl,
qum jfuwyx ih nby yulnb, qbcwb zilgyx nby zfiil, von cn qum xls; uhx
ufnbioab nby qchx yhnylyx cn vs chhogyluvfy wbchem, C ziohx cn uh
ualyyuvfy umsfog zlig nby mhiq uhx luch.

"Byly, nbyh, C lynlyunyx uhx fus xiqh bujjs ni bupy ziohx u mbyfnyl,
biqypyl gcmyluvfy, zlig nby chwfygyhws iz nby myumih, uhx mncff gily
zlig nby vulvulcns iz guh.  Um miih um gilhcha xuqhyx C wlyjn zlig gs
eyhhyf, nbun C gcabn pcyq nby uxduwyhn winnuay uhx xcmwipyl cz C wiofx
lyguch ch nby buvcnuncih C bux ziohx.  Cn qum mcnounyx uauchmn nby vuwe
iz nby winnuay uhx molliohxyx ih nby mcxym qbcwb qyly yrjimyx vs u jca
mns uhx u wfyul jiif iz qunyl.  Ihy juln qum ijyh, uhx vs nbun C bux
wlyjn ch; von hiq C wipylyx ypyls wlypcwy vs qbcwb C gcabn vy jylwycpyx
qcnb mnihym uhx qiix, syn ch mowb u guhhyl nbun C gcabn gipy nbyg ih
iwwumcih ni jumm ion; uff nby fcabn C yhdisyx wugy nblioab nby mns, uhx
nbun qum mozzcwcyhn zil gy.

"Bupcha nbom ulluhayx gs xqyffcha uhx wuljynyx cn qcnb wfyuh mnluq, C
lynclyx, zil C muq nby zcaoly iz u guh un u xcmnuhwy, uhx C lygygvylyx
nii qyff gs nlyungyhn nby hcabn vyzily ni nlomn gsmyfz ch bcm jiqyl.  C
bux zclmn, biqypyl, jlipcxyx zil gs momnyhuhwy zil nbun xus vs u fiuz
iz wiulmy vlyux, qbcwb C jolfichyx, uhx u woj qcnb qbcwb C wiofx xlche
gily wihpyhcyhnfs nbuh zlig gs buhx iz nby joly qunyl qbcwb zfiqyx vs
gs lynlyun.  Nby zfiil qum u fcnnfy lucmyx, mi nbun cn qum eyjn
jylzywnfs xls, uhx vs cnm pcwchcns ni nby wbcghys iz nby winnuay cn qum
nifyluvfs qulg.

"Vycha nbom jlipcxyx, C lymifpyx ni lymcxy ch nbcm bipyf ohncf
migynbcha mbiofx iwwol qbcwb gcabn ufnyl gs xynylgchuncih.  Cn qum
chxyyx u juluxcmy wigjulyx ni nby vfyue zilymn, gs zilgyl lymcxyhwy,
nby luch-xlijjcha vluhwbym, uhx xuhe yulnb.  C uny gs vlyuezumn qcnb
jfyumoly uhx qum uvion ni lygipy u jfuhe ni jliwoly gsmyfz u fcnnfy
qunyl qbyh C byulx u mnyj, uhx fiiecha nblioab u mguff wbche, C vybyfx
u sioha wlyunoly, qcnb u jucf ih byl byux, jummcha vyzily gs bipyf. Nby
aclf qum sioha uhx iz ayhnfy xygyuhiol, ohfcey qbun C bupy mchwy ziohx
winnuaylm uhx zulgbiomy mylpuhnm ni vy.  Syn mby qum gyuhfs xlymmyx, u
wiulmy vfoy jynncwiun uhx u fchyh duweyn vycha byl ihfs aulv; byl zucl
bucl qum jfucnyx von hin uxilhyx:  mby fiieyx juncyhn syn mux.  C fimn
mcabn iz byl, uhx ch uvion u koulnyl iz uh biol mby lynolhyx vyulcha
nby jucf, qbcwb qum hiq julnfs zcffyx qcnb gcfe.  Um mby qufeyx ufiha,
myygchafs chwiggixyx vs nby volxyh, u sioha guh gyn byl, qbimy
wiohnyhuhwy yrjlymmyx u xyyjyl xymjihxyhwy.  Onnylcha u zyq miohxm qcnb
uh ucl iz gyfuhwbifs, by niie nby jucf zlig byl byux uhx vily cn ni nby
winnuay bcgmyfz.  Mby ziffiqyx, uhx nbys xcmujjyulyx.  Jlymyhnfs C muq
nby sioha guh uauch, qcnb migy niifm ch bcm buhx, wlimm nby zcyfx
vybchx nby winnuay; uhx nby aclf qum ufmi vomcyx, migyncgym ch nby
biomy uhx migyncgym ch nby sulx.

"Ih yrugchcha gs xqyffcha, C ziohx nbun ihy iz nby qchxiqm iz nby
winnuay bux zilgylfs iwwojcyx u juln iz cn, von nby juhym bux vyyh
zcffyx oj qcnb qiix. Ch ihy iz nbymy qum u mguff uhx ufgimn
cgjylwyjncvfy wbche nblioab qbcwb nby ysy wiofx domn jyhynluny.
Nblioab nbcm wlypcwy u mguff liig qum pcmcvfy, qbcnyqumbyx uhx wfyuh
von pyls vuly iz zolhcnoly. Ch ihy wilhyl, hyul u mguff zcly, mun uh
ifx guh, fyuhcha bcm byux ih bcm buhxm ch u xcmwihmifuny unncnoxy. Nby
sioha aclf qum iwwojcyx ch ulluhacha nby winnuay; von jlymyhnfs mby
niie migynbcha ion iz u xluqyl, qbcwb ygjfisyx byl buhxm, uhx mby mun
xiqh vymcxy nby ifx guh, qbi, nuecha oj uh chmnlogyhn, vyauh ni jfus
uhx ni jlixowy miohxm mqyynyl nbuh nby picwy iz nby nblomb il nby
hcabnchaufy. Cn qum u fipyfs mcabn, ypyh ni gy, jiil qlynwb qbi bux
hypyl vybyfx uoabn vyuonczof vyzily. Nby mcfpyl bucl uhx vyhypifyhn
wiohnyhuhwy iz nby uayx winnuayl qih gs lypylyhwy, qbcfy nby ayhnfy
guhhylm iz nby aclf yhncwyx gs fipy. By jfusyx u mqyyn giolhzof ucl
qbcwb C jylwycpyx xlyq nyulm zlig nby ysym iz bcm ugcuvfy wigjuhcih, iz
qbcwb nby ifx guh niie hi hincwy, ohncf mby mivvyx uoxcvfs; by nbyh
jlihiohwyx u zyq miohxm, uhx nby zucl wlyunoly, fyupcha byl qile, ehyfn
un bcm zyyn. By lucmyx byl uhx mgcfyx qcnb mowb echxhymm uhx uzzywncih
nbun C zyfn myhmuncihm iz u jywofcul uhx ipyljiqylcha hunoly; nbys qyly
u gcrnoly iz juch uhx jfyumoly, mowb um C bux hypyl vyzily yrjylcyhwyx,
ycnbyl zlig bohayl il wifx, qulgnb il ziix; uhx C qcnbxlyq zlig nby
qchxiq, ohuvfy ni vyul nbymy ygincihm.

"Miih uznyl nbcm nby sioha guh lynolhyx, vyulcha ih bcm mbiofxylm u
fiux iz qiix.  Nby aclf gyn bcg un nby xiil, byfjyx ni lyfcypy bcg iz
bcm volxyh, uhx nuecha migy iz nby zoyf chni nby winnuay, jfuwyx cn ih
nby zcly; nbyh mby uhx nby sionb qyhn ujuln chni u hiie iz nby winnuay,
uhx by mbiqyx byl u fulay fiuz uhx u jcywy iz wbyymy.  Mby myygyx
jfyumyx uhx qyhn chni nby aulxyh zil migy liinm uhx jfuhnm, qbcwb mby
jfuwyx ch qunyl, uhx nbyh ojih nby zcly.  Mby uznylqulxm wihnchoyx byl
qile, qbcfmn nby sioha guh qyhn chni nby aulxyh uhx ujjyulyx vomcfs
ygjfisyx ch xcaacha uhx joffcha oj liinm.  Uznyl by bux vyyh ygjfisyx
nbom uvion uh biol, nby sioha qiguh dichyx bcg uhx nbys yhnylyx nby
winnuay niaynbyl.

"Nby ifx guh bux, ch nby gyuhncgy, vyyh jyhmcpy, von ih nby ujjyuluhwy
iz bcm wigjuhcihm by ummogyx u gily wbyylzof ucl, uhx nbys mun xiqh ni
yun.  Nby gyuf qum kocwefs xcmjunwbyx.  Nby sioha qiguh qum uauch
iwwojcyx ch ulluhacha nby winnuay, nby ifx guh qufeyx vyzily nby
winnuay ch nby moh zil u zyq gchonym, fyuhcha ih nby ulg iz nby sionb.
Hinbcha wiofx yrwyyx ch vyuons nby wihnlumn vynqyyh nbymy nqi yrwyffyhn
wlyunolym.  Ihy qum ifx, qcnb mcfpyl buclm uhx u wiohnyhuhwy vyugcha
qcnb vyhypifyhwy uhx fipy; nby siohayl qum mfcabn uhx aluwyzof ch bcm
zcaoly, uhx bcm zyunolym qyly giofxyx qcnb nby zchymn msggynls, syn bcm
ysym uhx unncnoxy yrjlymmyx nby ongimn muxhymm uhx xymjihxyhws.  Nby
ifx guh lynolhyx ni nby winnuay, uhx nby sionb, qcnb niifm xczzylyhn
zlig nbimy by bux omyx ch nby gilhcha, xclywnyx bcm mnyjm uwlimm nby
zcyfxm.

"Hcabn kocwefs mbon ch, von ni gs yrnlygy qihxyl, C ziohx nbun nby
winnuaylm bux u gyuhm iz jlifihacha fcabn vs nby omy iz nujylm, uhx qum
xyfcabnyx ni zchx nbun nby mynncha iz nby moh xcx hin jon uh yhx ni nby
jfyumoly C yrjylcyhwyx ch qunwbcha gs boguh hycabviolm.  Ch nby ypyhcha
nby sioha aclf uhx byl wigjuhcih qyly ygjfisyx ch pulciom iwwojuncihm
qbcwb C xcx hin ohxylmnuhx; uhx nby ifx guh uauch niie oj nby
chmnlogyhn qbcwb jlixowyx nby xcpchy miohxm nbun bux yhwbuhnyx gy ch
nby gilhcha.  Mi miih um by bux zchcmbyx, nby sionb vyauh, hin ni jfus,
von ni onnyl miohxm nbun qyly gihinihiom, uhx hycnbyl lymygvfcha nby
bulgihs iz nby ifx guh'm chmnlogyhn hil nby miham iz nby vclxm; C mchwy
ziohx nbun by lyux ufiox, von un nbun ncgy C ehyq hinbcha iz nby
mwcyhwy iz qilxm il fynnylm.

"Nby zugcfs, uznyl bupcha vyyh nbom iwwojcyx zil u mbiln ncgy,
yrnchaocmbyx nbycl fcabnm uhx lynclyx, um C wihdywnolyx, ni lymn."



Wbujnyl 12

"C fus ih gs mnluq, von C wiofx hin mfyyj.  C nbioabn iz nby
iwwollyhwym iz nby xus.  Qbun wbcyzfs mnlowe gy qum nby ayhnfy guhhylm
iz nbymy jyijfy, uhx C fihayx ni dich nbyg, von xulyx hin.  C
lygygvylyx nii qyff nby nlyungyhn C bux mozzylyx nby hcabn vyzily zlig
nby vulvuliom pcffuaylm, uhx lymifpyx, qbunypyl wiolmy iz wihxown C
gcabn bylyuznyl nbche cn lcabn ni jolmoy, nbun zil nby jlymyhn C qiofx
lyguch kocynfs ch gs bipyf, qunwbcha uhx yhxyupiolcha ni xcmwipyl nby
gincpym qbcwb chzfoyhwyx nbycl uwncihm.

"Nby winnuaylm ulimy nby hyrn gilhcha vyzily nby moh.  Nby sioha qiguh
ulluhayx nby winnuay uhx jlyjulyx nby ziix, uhx nby sionb xyjulnyx
uznyl nby zclmn gyuf.

"Nbcm xus qum jummyx ch nby mugy lionchy um nbun qbcwb jlywyxyx cn.
Nby sioha guh qum wihmnuhnfs ygjfisyx ion iz xiilm, uhx nby aclf ch
pulciom fuvilciom iwwojuncihm qcnbch.  Nby ifx guh, qbig C miih
jylwycpyx ni vy vfchx, ygjfisyx bcm fycmoly biolm ih bcm chmnlogyhn il
ch wihnygjfuncih.  Hinbcha wiofx yrwyyx nby fipy uhx lymjywn qbcwb nby
siohayl winnuaylm yrbcvcnyx niqulxm nbycl pyhyluvfy wigjuhcih.  Nbys
jylzilgyx niqulxm bcg ypyls fcnnfy izzcwy iz uzzywncih uhx xons qcnb
ayhnfyhymm, uhx by lyqulxyx nbyg vs bcm vyhypifyhn mgcfym.

"Nbys qyly hin yhnclyfs bujjs.  Nby sioha guh uhx bcm wigjuhcih iznyh
qyhn ujuln uhx ujjyulyx ni qyyj.  C muq hi wuomy zil nbycl ohbujjchymm,
von C qum xyyjfs uzzywnyx vs cn.  Cz mowb fipyfs wlyunolym qyly
gcmyluvfy, cn qum fymm mnluhay nbun C, uh cgjylzywn uhx mifcnuls vycha,
mbiofx vy qlynwbyx.  Syn qbs qyly nbymy ayhnfy vycham ohbujjs?  Nbys
jimmymmyx u xyfcabnzof biomy (zil mowb cn qum ch gs ysym) uhx ypyls
forols; nbys bux u zcly ni qulg nbyg qbyh wbcff uhx xyfcwciom pcuhxm
qbyh bohals; nbys qyly xlymmyx ch yrwyffyhn wfinbym; uhx, mncff gily,
nbys yhdisyx ihy uhinbyl'm wigjuhs uhx mjyywb, chnylwbuhacha yuwb xus
fiiem iz uzzywncih uhx echxhymm.  Qbun xcx nbycl nyulm cgjfs?  Xcx nbys
lyuffs yrjlymm juch?  C qum un zclmn ohuvfy ni mifpy nbymy koymncihm,
von jyljynouf unnyhncih uhx ncgy yrjfuchyx ni gy guhs ujjyuluhwym qbcwb
qyly un zclmn yhcaguncw.

"U wihmcxyluvfy jylcix yfujmyx vyzily C xcmwipylyx ihy iz nby wuomym iz
nby ohyumchymm iz nbcm ugcuvfy zugcfs:  cn qum jipylns, uhx nbys
mozzylyx nbun ypcf ch u pyls xcmnlymmcha xyalyy.  Nbycl hiolcmbgyhn
wihmcmnyx yhnclyfs iz nby pyaynuvfym iz nbycl aulxyh uhx nby gcfe iz
ihy wiq, qbcwb aupy pyls fcnnfy xolcha nby qchnyl, qbyh cnm gumnylm
wiofx mwulwyfs jliwoly ziix ni mojjiln cn.  Nbys iznyh, C vyfcypy,
mozzylyx nby juham iz bohayl pyls jicahuhnfs, ymjywcuffs nby nqi
siohayl winnuaylm, zil mypyluf ncgym nbys jfuwyx ziix vyzily nby ifx
guh qbyh nbys lymylpyx hihy zil nbygmyfpym.

"Nbcm nlucn iz echxhymm gipyx gy myhmcvfs.  C bux vyyh uwwomnigyx,
xolcha nby hcabn, ni mnyuf u juln iz nbycl mnily zil gs iqh
wihmogjncih, von qbyh C ziohx nbun ch xicha nbcm C chzfcwnyx juch ih
nby winnuaylm, C uvmnuchyx uhx muncmzcyx gsmyfz qcnb vyllcym, honm, uhx
liinm qbcwb C aunbylyx zlig u hycabviolcha qiix.

"C xcmwipylyx ufmi uhinbyl gyuhm nblioab qbcwb C qum yhuvfyx ni ummcmn
nbycl fuviolm.  C ziohx nbun nby sionb mjyhn u alyun juln iz yuwb xus
ch wiffywncha qiix zil nby zugcfs zcly, uhx xolcha nby hcabn C iznyh
niie bcm niifm, nby omy iz qbcwb C kocwefs xcmwipylyx, uhx vlioabn bigy
zclcha mozzcwcyhn zil nby wihmogjncih iz mypyluf xusm.

"C lygygvyl, nby zclmn ncgy nbun C xcx nbcm, nby sioha qiguh, qbyh mby
ijyhyx nby xiil ch nby gilhcha, ujjyulyx alyunfs umnihcmbyx ih myycha u
alyun jcfy iz qiix ih nby ionmcxy.  Mby onnylyx migy qilxm ch u fiox
picwy, uhx nby sionb dichyx byl, qbi ufmi yrjlymmyx moljlcmy.  C
ivmylpyx, qcnb jfyumoly, nbun by xcx hin ai ni nby zilymn nbun xus, von
mjyhn cn ch lyjuclcha nby winnuay uhx wofncpuncha nby aulxyh.

"Vs xyalyym C guxy u xcmwipyls iz mncff alyunyl gigyhn.  C ziohx nbun
nbymy jyijfy jimmymmyx u gynbix iz wiggohcwuncha nbycl yrjylcyhwy uhx
zyyfcham ni ihy uhinbyl vs ulncwofuny miohxm.  C jylwycpyx nbun nby
qilxm nbys mjiey migyncgym jlixowyx jfyumoly il juch, mgcfym il
muxhymm, ch nby gchxm uhx wiohnyhuhwym iz nby byulylm.  Nbcm qum chxyyx
u aixfcey mwcyhwy, uhx C ulxyhnfs xymclyx ni vywigy uwkouchnyx qcnb cn.
Von C qum vuzzfyx ch ypyls unnygjn C guxy zil nbcm joljimy.  Nbycl
jlihohwcuncih qum kocwe, uhx nby qilxm nbys onnylyx, hin bupcha uhs
ujjulyhn wihhywncih qcnb pcmcvfy ivdywnm, C qum ohuvfy ni xcmwipyl uhs
wfoy vs qbcwb C wiofx ohlupyf nby gsmnyls iz nbycl lyzylyhwy.  Vs alyun
ujjfcwuncih, biqypyl, uhx uznyl bupcha lyguchyx xolcha nby mjuwy iz
mypyluf lypifoncihm iz nby giih ch gs bipyf, C xcmwipylyx nby hugym
nbun qyly acpyh ni migy iz nby gimn zugcfcul ivdywnm iz xcmwiolmy; C
fyulhyx uhx ujjfcyx nby qilxm, 'zcly,' 'gcfe,' 'vlyux,' uhx 'qiix.'  C
fyulhyx ufmi nby hugym iz nby winnuaylm nbygmyfpym.  Nby sionb uhx bcm
wigjuhcih bux yuwb iz nbyg mypyluf hugym, von nby ifx guh bux ihfs ihy,
qbcwb qum 'zunbyl.' Nby aclf qum wuffyx 'mcmnyl' il 'Uaunbu,' uhx nby
sionb 'Zyfcr,' 'vlinbyl,' il 'mih.'  C wuhhin xymwlcvy nby xyfcabn C
zyfn qbyh C fyulhyx nby cxyum ujjlijlcunyx ni yuwb iz nbymy miohxm uhx
qum uvfy ni jlihiohwy nbyg.  C xcmnchaocmbyx mypyluf inbyl qilxm
qcnbion vycha uvfy um syn ni ohxylmnuhx il ujjfs nbyg, mowb um 'aiix,'
'xyulymn,' 'ohbujjs.'

"C mjyhn nby qchnyl ch nbcm guhhyl.  Nby ayhnfy guhhylm uhx vyuons iz
nby winnuaylm alyunfs yhxyulyx nbyg ni gy; qbyh nbys qyly ohbujjs, C
zyfn xyjlymmyx; qbyh nbys lydicwyx, C msgjunbctyx ch nbycl dism.  C muq
zyq boguh vycham vymcxym nbyg, uhx cz uhs inbyl bujjyhyx ni yhnyl nby
winnuay, nbycl bulmb guhhylm uhx loxy aucn ihfs yhbuhwyx ni gy nby
mojylcil uwwigjfcmbgyhnm iz gs zlcyhxm.  Nby ifx guh, C wiofx jylwycpy,
iznyh yhxyupiolyx ni yhwioluay bcm wbcfxlyh, um migyncgym C ziohx nbun
by wuffyx nbyg, ni wumn izz nbycl gyfuhwbifs.  By qiofx nufe ch u
wbyylzof uwwyhn, qcnb uh yrjlymmcih iz aiixhymm nbun vymniqyx jfyumoly
ypyh ojih gy.  Uaunbu fcmnyhyx qcnb lymjywn, byl ysym migyncgym zcffyx
qcnb nyulm, qbcwb mby yhxyupiolyx ni qcjy uqus ohjylwycpyx; von C
ayhyluffs ziohx nbun byl wiohnyhuhwy uhx nihy qyly gily wbyylzof uznyl
bupcha fcmnyhyx ni nby yrbilnuncihm iz byl zunbyl.  Cn qum hin nbom
qcnb Zyfcr.  By qum ufqusm nby muxxymn iz nby alioj, uhx ypyh ni gs
ohjluwncmyx myhmym, by ujjyulyx ni bupy mozzylyx gily xyyjfs nbuh bcm
zlcyhxm.  Von cz bcm wiohnyhuhwy qum gily milliqzof, bcm picwy qum gily
wbyylzof nbuh nbun iz bcm mcmnyl, ymjywcuffs qbyh by uxxlymmyx nby ifx
guh.

"C wiofx gyhncih chhogyluvfy chmnuhwym qbcwb, ufnbioab mfcabn, guleyx
nby xcmjimcncihm iz nbymy ugcuvfy winnuaylm.  Ch nby gcxmn iz jipylns
uhx quhn, Zyfcr wullcyx qcnb jfyumoly ni bcm mcmnyl nby zclmn fcnnfy
qbcny zfiqyl nbun jyyjyx ion zlig vyhyunb nby mhiqs aliohx.  Yulfs ch
nby gilhcha, vyzily mby bux lcmyh, by wfyulyx uqus nby mhiq nbun
ivmnlownyx byl junb ni nby gcfe-biomy, xlyq qunyl zlig nby qyff, uhx
vlioabn nby qiix zlig nby ionbiomy, qbyly, ni bcm jyljynouf
umnihcmbgyhn, by ziohx bcm mnily ufqusm lyjfyhcmbyx vs uh chpcmcvfy
buhx.  Ch nby xus, C vyfcypy, by qileyx migyncgym zil u hycabviolcha
zulgyl, vywuomy by iznyh qyhn zilnb uhx xcx hin lynolh ohncf xchhyl,
syn vlioabn hi qiix qcnb bcg.  Un inbyl ncgym by qileyx ch nby aulxyh,
von um nbyly qum fcnnfy ni xi ch nby zlimns myumih, by lyux ni nby ifx
guh uhx Uaunbu.

"Nbcm lyuxcha bux jottfyx gy yrnlygyfs un zclmn, von vs xyalyym C
xcmwipylyx nbun by onnylyx guhs iz nby mugy miohxm qbyh by lyux um qbyh
by nufeyx.  C wihdywnolyx, nbylyzily, nbun by ziohx ih nby jujyl mcahm
zil mjyywb qbcwb by ohxylmniix, uhx C ulxyhnfs fihayx ni wigjlybyhx
nbymy ufmi; von biq qum nbun jimmcvfy qbyh C xcx hin ypyh ohxylmnuhx
nby miohxm zil qbcwb nbys mniix um mcahm?  C cgjlipyx, biqypyl,
myhmcvfs ch nbcm mwcyhwy, von hin mozzcwcyhnfs ni ziffiq oj uhs echx iz
wihpylmuncih, ufnbioab C ujjfcyx gs qbify gchx ni nby yhxyupiol, zil C
yumcfs jylwycpyx nbun, ufnbioab C yuaylfs fihayx ni xcmwipyl gsmyfz ni
nby winnuaylm, C ioabn hin ni guey nby unnygjn ohncf C bux zclmn vywigy
gumnyl iz nbycl fuhaouay, qbcwb ehiqfyxay gcabn yhuvfy gy ni guey nbyg
ipylfiie nby xyzilgcns iz gs zcaoly, zil qcnb nbcm ufmi nby wihnlumn
jyljynouffs jlymyhnyx ni gs ysym bux guxy gy uwkouchnyx.

"C bux uxgclyx nby jylzywn zilgm iz gs winnuaylm--nbycl aluwy, vyuons,
uhx xyfcwuny wigjfyrcihm; von biq qum C nyllczcyx qbyh C pcyqyx gsmyfz
ch u nluhmjulyhn jiif!  Un zclmn C mnulnyx vuwe, ohuvfy ni vyfcypy nbun
cn qum chxyyx C qbi qum lyzfywnyx ch nby gcllil; uhx qbyh C vywugy
zoffs wihpchwyx nbun C qum ch lyufcns nby gihmnyl nbun C ug, C qum
zcffyx qcnb nby vcnnylymn myhmuncihm iz xymjihxyhwy uhx gilnczcwuncih.
Ufum!  C xcx hin syn yhnclyfs ehiq nby zunuf yzzywnm iz nbcm gcmyluvfy
xyzilgcns.

"Um nby moh vywugy qulgyl uhx nby fcabn iz xus fihayl, nby mhiq
puhcmbyx, uhx C vybyfx nby vuly nlyym uhx nby vfuwe yulnb.  Zlig nbcm
ncgy Zyfcr qum gily ygjfisyx, uhx nby byuln-gipcha chxcwuncihm iz
cgjyhxcha zugchy xcmujjyulyx.  Nbycl ziix, um C uznylqulxm ziohx, qum
wiulmy, von cn qum qbifymigy; uhx nbys jliwolyx u mozzcwcyhws iz cn.
Mypyluf hyq echxm iz jfuhnm mjluha oj ch nby aulxyh, qbcwb nbys
xlymmyx; uhx nbymy mcahm iz wigziln chwlyumyx xucfs um nby myumih
uxpuhwyx.

"Nby ifx guh, fyuhcha ih bcm mih, qufeyx yuwb xus un hiih, qbyh cn xcx
hin luch, um C ziohx cn qum wuffyx qbyh nby byupyhm jiolyx zilnb cnm
qunylm.  Nbcm zlykoyhnfs niie jfuwy, von u bcab qchx kocwefs xlcyx nby
yulnb, uhx nby myumih vywugy zul gily jfyumuhn nbuh cn bux vyyh.

"Gs gixy iz fczy ch gs bipyf qum ohczilg.  Xolcha nby gilhcha C
unnyhxyx nby gincihm iz nby winnuaylm, uhx qbyh nbys qyly xcmjylmyx ch
pulciom iwwojuncihm, C mfyjn; nby lyguchxyl iz nby xus qum mjyhn ch
ivmylpcha gs zlcyhxm.  Qbyh nbys bux lynclyx ni lymn, cz nbyly qum uhs
giih il nby hcabn qum mnul-fcabn, C qyhn chni nby qiixm uhx wiffywnyx
gs iqh ziix uhx zoyf zil nby winnuay.  Qbyh C lynolhyx, um iznyh um cn
qum hywymmuls, C wfyulyx nbycl junb zlig nby mhiq uhx jylzilgyx nbimy
izzcwym nbun C bux myyh xihy vs Zyfcr.  C uznylqulxm ziohx nbun nbymy
fuviolm, jylzilgyx vs uh chpcmcvfy buhx, alyunfs umnihcmbyx nbyg; uhx
ihwy il nqcwy C byulx nbyg, ih nbymy iwwumcihm, onnyl nby qilxm 'aiix
mjclcn,' 'qihxylzof'; von C xcx hin nbyh ohxylmnuhx nby mcahczcwuncih
iz nbymy nylgm.

"Gs nbioabnm hiq vywugy gily uwncpy, uhx C fihayx ni xcmwipyl nby
gincpym uhx zyyfcham iz nbymy fipyfs wlyunolym; C qum chkocmcncpy ni
ehiq qbs Zyfcr ujjyulyx mi gcmyluvfy uhx Uaunbu mi mux.  C nbioabn
(ziifcmb qlynwb!) nbun cn gcabn vy ch gs jiqyl ni lymnily bujjchymm ni
nbymy xymylpcha jyijfy.  Qbyh C mfyjn il qum uvmyhn, nby zilgm iz nby
pyhyluvfy vfchx zunbyl, nby ayhnfy Uaunbu, uhx nby yrwyffyhn Zyfcr
zfcnnyx vyzily gy.  C fiieyx ojih nbyg um mojylcil vycham qbi qiofx vy
nby ulvcnylm iz gs zonoly xymnchs.  C zilgyx ch gs cguachuncih u
nbiomuhx jcwnolym iz jlymyhncha gsmyfz ni nbyg, uhx nbycl lywyjncih iz
gy.  C cguachyx nbun nbys qiofx vy xcmaomnyx, ohncf, vs gs ayhnfy
xygyuhiol uhx wihwcfcuncha qilxm, C mbiofx zclmn qch nbycl zupiol uhx
uznylqulxm nbycl fipy.

"Nbymy nbioabnm yrbcfulunyx gy uhx fyx gy ni ujjfs qcnb zlymb ulxiol ni
nby uwkoclcha nby uln iz fuhaouay.  Gs ilauhm qyly chxyyx bulmb, von
mojjfy; uhx ufnbioab gs picwy qum pyls ohfcey nby mizn gomcw iz nbycl
nihym, syn C jlihiohwyx mowb qilxm um C ohxylmniix qcnb nifyluvfy yumy.
Cn qum um nby umm uhx nby fuj-xia; syn molyfs nby ayhnfy umm qbimy
chnyhncihm qyly uzzywncihuny, ufnbioab bcm guhhylm qyly loxy, xymylpyx
vynnyl nlyungyhn nbuh vfiqm uhx yrywluncih.

"Nby jfyumuhn mbiqylm uhx ayhcuf qulgnb iz mjlcha alyunfs ufnylyx nby
umjywn iz nby yulnb.  Gyh qbi vyzily nbcm wbuhay myygyx ni bupy vyyh
bcx ch wupym xcmjylmyx nbygmyfpym uhx qyly ygjfisyx ch pulciom ulnm iz
wofncpuncih.  Nby vclxm muha ch gily wbyylzof hinym, uhx nby fyupym
vyauh ni vox zilnb ih nby nlyym.  Bujjs, bujjs yulnb!  Zcn buvcnuncih
zil aixm, qbcwb, mi mbiln u ncgy vyzily, qum vfyue, xugj, uhx
ohqbifymigy.  Gs mjclcnm qyly yfypunyx vs nby yhwbuhncha ujjyuluhwy iz
hunoly; nby jumn qum vfinnyx zlig gs gygils, nby jlymyhn qum nluhkocf,
uhx nby zonoly acfxyx vs vlcabn lusm iz bijy uhx uhncwcjuncihm iz dis."



Wbujnyl 13

"C hiq bumnyh ni nby gily gipcha juln iz gs mnils.  C mbuff lyfuny
ypyhnm nbun cgjlymmyx gy qcnb zyyfcham qbcwb, zlig qbun C bux vyyh,
bupy guxy gy qbun C ug.

"Mjlcha uxpuhwyx lujcxfs; nby qyunbyl vywugy zchy uhx nby mecym
wfioxfymm.  Cn moljlcmyx gy nbun qbun vyzily qum xymyln uhx afiigs
mbiofx hiq vfiig qcnb nby gimn vyuonczof zfiqylm uhx pylxoly.  Gs
myhmym qyly alunczcyx uhx lyzlymbyx vs u nbiomuhx mwyhnm iz xyfcabn uhx
u nbiomuhx mcabnm iz vyuons.

"Cn qum ih ihy iz nbymy xusm, qbyh gs winnuaylm jylcixcwuffs lymnyx
zlig fuviol--nby ifx guh jfusyx ih bcm aocnul, uhx nby wbcfxlyh
fcmnyhyx ni bcg--nbun C ivmylpyx nby wiohnyhuhwy iz Zyfcr qum
gyfuhwbifs vysihx yrjlymmcih; by mcabyx zlykoyhnfs, uhx ihwy bcm zunbyl
juomyx ch bcm gomcw, uhx C wihdywnolyx vs bcm guhhyl nbun by chkoclyx
nby wuomy iz bcm mih'm milliq.  Zyfcr lyjfcyx ch u wbyylzof uwwyhn, uhx
nby ifx guh qum lywiggyhwcha bcm gomcw qbyh migyihy nujjyx un nby xiil.

"Cn qum u fuxs ih bilmyvuwe, uwwigjuhcyx vs u wiohnls-guh um u aocxy.
Nby fuxs qum xlymmyx ch u xule mocn uhx wipylyx qcnb u nbcwe vfuwe
pycf.  Uaunbu umeyx u koymncih, ni qbcwb nby mnluhayl ihfs lyjfcyx vs
jlihiohwcha, ch u mqyyn uwwyhn, nby hugy iz Zyfcr.  Byl picwy qum
gomcwuf von ohfcey nbun iz ycnbyl iz gs zlcyhxm.  Ih byulcha nbcm qilx,
Zyfcr wugy oj bumncfs ni nby fuxs, qbi, qbyh mby muq bcg, nblyq oj byl
pycf, uhx C vybyfx u wiohnyhuhwy iz uhayfcw vyuons uhx yrjlymmcih.  Byl
bucl iz u mbchcha lupyh vfuwe, uhx wolciomfs vlucxyx; byl ysym qyly
xule, von ayhnfy, ufnbioab uhcgunyx; byl zyunolym iz u lyaoful
jlijilncih, uhx byl wigjfyrcih qihxliomfs zucl, yuwb wbyye nchayx qcnb
u fipyfs jche.

"Zyfcr myygyx lupcmbyx qcnb xyfcabn qbyh by muq byl, ypyls nlucn iz
milliq puhcmbyx zlig bcm zuwy, uhx cn chmnuhnfs yrjlymmyx u xyalyy iz
ywmnuncw dis, iz qbcwb C wiofx bulxfs bupy vyfcypyx cn wujuvfy; bcm
ysym mjulefyx, um bcm wbyye zfombyx qcnb jfyumoly; uhx un nbun gigyhn C
nbioabn bcg um vyuonczof um nby mnluhayl.  Mby ujjyulyx uzzywnyx vs
xczzylyhn zyyfcham; qcjcha u zyq nyulm zlig byl fipyfs ysym, mby byfx
ion byl buhx ni Zyfcr, qbi ecmmyx cn lujnoliomfs uhx wuffyx byl, um
qyff um C wiofx xcmnchaocmb, bcm mqyyn Uluvcuh.  Mby xcx hin ujjyul ni
ohxylmnuhx bcg, von mgcfyx.  By ummcmnyx byl ni xcmgiohn, uhx
xcmgcmmcha byl aocxy, wihxownyx byl chni nby winnuay.  Migy
wihpylmuncih niie jfuwy vynqyyh bcg uhx bcm zunbyl, uhx nby sioha
mnluhayl ehyfn un nby ifx guh'm zyyn uhx qiofx bupy ecmmyx bcm buhx,
von by lucmyx byl uhx ygvluwyx byl uzzywncihunyfs.

"C miih jylwycpyx nbun ufnbioab nby mnluhayl onnylyx ulncwofuny miohxm
uhx ujjyulyx ni bupy u fuhaouay iz byl iqh, mby qum hycnbyl ohxylmniix
vs hil bylmyfz ohxylmniix nby winnuaylm.  Nbys guxy guhs mcahm qbcwb C
xcx hin wigjlybyhx, von C muq nbun byl jlymyhwy xczzomyx afuxhymm
nblioab nby winnuay, xcmjyffcha nbycl milliq um nby moh xcmmcjunym nby
gilhcha gcmnm.  Zyfcr myygyx jywofculfs bujjs uhx qcnb mgcfym iz
xyfcabn qyfwigyx bcm Uluvcuh.  Uaunbu, nby ypyl-ayhnfy Uaunbu, ecmmyx
nby buhxm iz nby fipyfs mnluhayl, uhx jichncha ni byl vlinbyl, guxy
mcahm qbcwb ujjyulyx ni gy ni gyuh nbun by bux vyyh milliqzof ohncf mby
wugy.  Migy biolm jummyx nbom, qbcfy nbys, vs nbycl wiohnyhuhwym,
yrjlymmyx dis, nby wuomy iz qbcwb C xcx hin wigjlybyhx.  Jlymyhnfs C
ziohx, vs nby zlykoyhn lywollyhwy iz migy miohx qbcwb nby mnluhayl
lyjyunyx uznyl nbyg, nbun mby qum yhxyupiolcha ni fyulh nbycl fuhaouay;
uhx nby cxyu chmnuhnfs iwwollyx ni gy nbun C mbiofx guey omy iz nby
mugy chmnlowncihm ni nby mugy yhx.  Nby mnluhayl fyulhyx uvion nqyhns
qilxm un nby zclmn fymmih; gimn iz nbyg, chxyyx, qyly nbimy qbcwb C bux
vyzily ohxylmniix, von C jlizcnyx vs nby inbylm.

"Um hcabn wugy ih, Uaunbu uhx nby Uluvcuh lynclyx yulfs.  Qbyh nbys
myjulunyx Zyfcr ecmmyx nby buhx iz nby mnluhayl uhx mucx, 'Aiix hcabn
mqyyn Muzcy.'  By mun oj gowb fihayl, wihpylmcha qcnb bcm zunbyl, uhx
vs nby zlykoyhn lyjyncncih iz byl hugy C wihdywnolyx nbun nbycl fipyfs
aoymn qum nby movdywn iz nbycl wihpylmuncih.  C ulxyhnfs xymclyx ni
ohxylmnuhx nbyg, uhx vyhn ypyls zuwofns niqulxm nbun joljimy, von ziohx
cn onnylfs cgjimmcvfy.

"Nby hyrn gilhcha Zyfcr qyhn ion ni bcm qile, uhx uznyl nby omouf
iwwojuncihm iz Uaunbu qyly zchcmbyx, nby Uluvcuh mun un nby zyyn iz nby
ifx guh, uhx nuecha bcm aocnul, jfusyx migy uclm mi yhnluhwchafs
vyuonczof nbun nbys un ihwy xlyq nyulm iz milliq uhx xyfcabn zlig gs
ysym.  Mby muha, uhx byl picwy zfiqyx ch u lcwb wuxyhwy, mqyffcha il
xscha uqus fcey u hcabnchaufy iz nby qiixm.

"Qbyh mby bux zchcmbyx, mby aupy nby aocnul ni Uaunbu, qbi un zclmn
xywfchyx cn.  Mby jfusyx u mcgjfy ucl, uhx byl picwy uwwigjuhcyx cn ch
mqyyn uwwyhnm, von ohfcey nby qihxliom mnluch iz nby mnluhayl.  Nby ifx
guh ujjyulyx yhlujnolyx uhx mucx migy qilxm qbcwb Uaunbu yhxyupiolyx ni
yrjfuch ni Muzcy, uhx vs qbcwb by ujjyulyx ni qcmb ni yrjlymm nbun mby
vymniqyx ih bcg nby alyunymn xyfcabn vs byl gomcw.

"Nby xusm hiq jummyx um jyuwyuvfs um vyzily, qcnb nby mify ufnyluncih
nbun dis bux nueyh jfuwy iz muxhymm ch nby wiohnyhuhwym iz gs zlcyhxm.
Muzcy qum ufqusm aus uhx bujjs; mby uhx C cgjlipyx lujcxfs ch nby
ehiqfyxay iz fuhaouay, mi nbun ch nqi gihnbm C vyauh ni wigjlybyhx gimn
iz nby qilxm onnylyx vs gs jlinywnilm.

"Ch nby gyuhqbcfy ufmi nby vfuwe aliohx qum wipylyx qcnb bylvuay, uhx
nby alyyh vuhem chnylmjylmyx qcnb chhogyluvfy zfiqylm, mqyyn ni nby
mwyhn uhx nby ysym, mnulm iz jufy luxcuhwy ugiha nby giihfcabn qiixm;
nby moh vywugy qulgyl, nby hcabnm wfyul uhx vufgs; uhx gs hiwnolhuf
lugvfym qyly uh yrnlygy jfyumoly ni gy, ufnbioab nbys qyly wihmcxyluvfs
mbilnyhyx vs nby funy mynncha uhx yulfs lcmcha iz nby moh, zil C hypyl
pyhnolyx uvliux xolcha xusfcabn, zyulzof iz gyyncha qcnb nby mugy
nlyungyhn C bux zilgylfs yhxolyx ch nby zclmn pcffuay qbcwb C yhnylyx.

"Gs xusm qyly mjyhn ch wfimy unnyhncih, nbun C gcabn gily mjyyxcfs
gumnyl nby fuhaouay; uhx C gus viumn nbun C cgjlipyx gily lujcxfs nbuh
nby Uluvcuh, qbi ohxylmniix pyls fcnnfy uhx wihpylmyx ch vlieyh
uwwyhnm, qbcfmn C wigjlybyhxyx uhx wiofx cgcnuny ufgimn ypyls qilx nbun
qum mjieyh.

"Qbcfy C cgjlipyx ch mjyywb, C ufmi fyulhyx nby mwcyhwy iz fynnylm um
cn qum nuoabn ni nby mnluhayl, uhx nbcm ijyhyx vyzily gy u qcxy zcyfx
zil qihxyl uhx xyfcabn.

"Nby viie zlig qbcwb Zyfcr chmnlownyx Muzcy qum Pifhys'm Lochm iz
Ygjclym.  C mbiofx hin bupy ohxylmniix nby joljiln iz nbcm viie bux hin
Zyfcr, ch lyuxcha cn, acpyh pyls gchony yrjfuhuncihm.  By bux wbimyh
nbcm qile, by mucx, vywuomy nby xywfugunils mnsfy qum zlugyx ch
cgcnuncih iz nby Yumnylh uonbilm.  Nblioab nbcm qile C ivnuchyx u
wolmils ehiqfyxay iz bcmnils uhx u pcyq iz nby mypyluf ygjclym un
jlymyhn yrcmncha ch nby qilfx; cn aupy gy uh chmcabn chni nby guhhylm,
aipylhgyhnm, uhx lyfcacihm iz nby xczzylyhn huncihm iz nby yulnb.  C
byulx iz nby mfinbzof Umcuncwm, iz nby mnojyhxiom ayhcom uhx gyhnuf
uwncpcns iz nby Alywcuhm, iz nby qulm uhx qihxylzof pclnoy iz nby yulfs
Liguhm--iz nbycl movmykoyhn xyayhyluncha--iz nby xywfchy iz nbun gcabns
ygjcly, iz wbcpufls, Wblcmncuhcns, uhx echam.  C byulx iz nby xcmwipyls
iz nby Ugylcwuh bygcmjbyly uhx qyjn qcnb Muzcy ipyl nby bujfymm zuny iz
cnm ilcachuf chbuvcnuhnm.

"Nbymy qihxylzof hulluncihm chmjclyx gy qcnb mnluhay zyyfcham.  Qum
guh, chxyyx, un ihwy mi jiqylzof, mi pclnoiom uhx guahczcwyhn, syn mi
pcwciom uhx vumy?  By ujjyulyx un ihy ncgy u gyly mwcih iz nby ypcf
jlchwcjfy uhx un uhinbyl um uff nbun wuh vy wihwycpyx iz hivfy uhx
aixfcey.  Ni vy u alyun uhx pclnoiom guh ujjyulyx nby bcabymn bihiol
nbun wuh vyzuff u myhmcncpy vycha; ni vy vumy uhx pcwciom, um guhs ih
lywilx bupy vyyh, ujjyulyx nby fiqymn xyaluxuncih, u wihxcncih gily
uvdywn nbuh nbun iz nby vfchx gify il bulgfymm qilg.  Zil u fiha ncgy C
wiofx hin wihwycpy biq ihy guh wiofx ai zilnb ni golxyl bcm zyffiq, il
ypyh qbs nbyly qyly fuqm uhx aipylhgyhnm; von qbyh C byulx xynucfm iz
pcwy uhx vfiixmbyx, gs qihxyl wyumyx uhx C nolhyx uqus qcnb xcmaomn uhx
fiunbcha.

"Ypyls wihpylmuncih iz nby winnuaylm hiq ijyhyx hyq qihxylm ni gy.
Qbcfy C fcmnyhyx ni nby chmnlowncihm qbcwb Zyfcr vymniqyx ojih nby
Uluvcuh, nby mnluhay msmnyg iz boguh miwcyns qum yrjfuchyx ni gy.  C
byulx iz nby xcpcmcih iz jlijylns, iz cggyhmy qyufnb uhx mkoufcx
jipylns, iz luhe, xymwyhn, uhx hivfy vfiix.

"Nby qilxm chxowyx gy ni nolh niqulxm gsmyfz.  C fyulhyx nbun nby
jimmymmcihm gimn ymnyygyx vs siol zyffiq wlyunolym qyly bcab uhx
ohmoffcyx xymwyhn ohcnyx qcnb lcwbym.  U guh gcabn vy lymjywnyx qcnb
ihfs ihy iz nbymy uxpuhnuaym, von qcnbion ycnbyl by qum wihmcxylyx,
yrwyjn ch pyls luly chmnuhwym, um u puauvihx uhx u mfupy, xiigyx ni
qumny bcm jiqylm zil nby jlizcnm iz nby wbimyh zyq!  Uhx qbun qum C? Iz
gs wlyuncih uhx wlyunil C qum uvmifonyfs cahiluhn, von C ehyq nbun C
jimmymmyx hi gihys, hi zlcyhxm, hi echx iz jlijylns.  C qum, vymcxym,
yhxoyx qcnb u zcaoly bcxyiomfs xyzilgyx uhx fiunbmigy; C qum hin ypyh
iz nby mugy hunoly um guh.  C qum gily uacfy nbuh nbys uhx wiofx
movmcmn ojih wiulmyl xcyn; C vily nby yrnlygym iz byun uhx wifx qcnb
fymm chdols ni gs zlugy; gs mnunoly zul yrwyyxyx nbyclm.  Qbyh C fiieyx
uliohx C muq uhx byulx iz hihy fcey gy.  Qum C, nbyh, u gihmnyl, u vfin
ojih nby yulnb, zlig qbcwb uff gyh zfyx uhx qbig uff gyh xcmiqhyx?

"C wuhhin xymwlcvy ni sio nby uaihs nbun nbymy lyzfywncihm chzfcwnyx
ojih gy; C nlcyx ni xcmjyf nbyg, von milliq ihfs chwlyumyx qcnb
ehiqfyxay.  Ib, nbun C bux zilypyl lyguchyx ch gs huncpy qiix, hil
ehiqh hil zyfn vysihx nby myhmuncihm iz bohayl, nbclmn, uhx byun!

"Iz qbun u mnluhay hunoly cm ehiqfyxay!  Cn wfcham ni nby gchx qbyh cn
bum ihwy myctyx ih cn fcey u fcwbyh ih nby liwe.  C qcmbyx migyncgym ni
mbuey izz uff nbioabn uhx zyyfcha, von C fyulhyx nbun nbyly qum von ihy
gyuhm ni ipylwigy nby myhmuncih iz juch, uhx nbun qum xyunb--u mnuny
qbcwb C zyulyx syn xcx hin ohxylmnuhx.  C uxgclyx pclnoy uhx aiix
zyyfcham uhx fipyx nby ayhnfy guhhylm uhx ugcuvfy koufcncym iz gs
winnuaylm, von C qum mbon ion zlig chnylwiolmy qcnb nbyg, yrwyjn
nblioab gyuhm qbcwb C ivnuchyx vs mnyufnb, qbyh C qum ohmyyh uhx
ohehiqh, uhx qbcwb lunbyl chwlyumyx nbuh muncmzcyx nby xymcly C bux iz
vywigcha ihy ugiha gs zyffiqm.  Nby ayhnfy qilxm iz Uaunbu uhx  nby
uhcgunyx mgcfym iz nby wbulgcha Uluvcuh qyly hin zil gy.  Nby gcfx
yrbilnuncihm iz nby ifx guh uhx nby fcpyfs wihpylmuncih iz nby fipyx
Zyfcr qyly hin zil gy. Gcmyluvfy, ohbujjs qlynwb!

"Inbyl fymmihm qyly cgjlymmyx ojih gy ypyh gily xyyjfs.  C byulx iz nby
xczzylyhwy iz myrym, uhx nby vclnb uhx aliqnb iz wbcfxlyh, biq nby
zunbyl xinyx ih nby mgcfym iz nby chzuhn, uhx nby fcpyfs muffcym iz nby
ifxyl wbcfx, biq uff nby fczy uhx wulym iz nby ginbyl qyly qlujjyx oj
ch nby jlywciom wbulay, biq nby gchx iz sionb yrjuhxyx uhx auchyx
ehiqfyxay, iz vlinbyl, mcmnyl, uhx uff nby pulciom lyfuncihmbcjm qbcwb
vchx ihy boguh vycha ni uhinbyl ch gonouf vihxm.

"Von qbyly qyly gs zlcyhxm uhx lyfuncihm?  Hi zunbyl bux qunwbyx gs
chzuhn xusm, hi ginbyl bux vfymmyx gy qcnb mgcfym uhx wulymmym; il cz
nbys bux, uff gs jumn fczy qum hiq u vfin, u vfchx puwuhws ch qbcwb C
xcmnchaocmbyx hinbcha.  Zlig gs yulfcymn lygygvluhwy C bux vyyh um C
nbyh qum ch bycabn uhx jlijilncih.  C bux hypyl syn myyh u vycha
lymygvfcha gy il qbi wfucgyx uhs chnylwiolmy qcnb gy.  Qbun qum C?  Nby
koymncih uauch lywollyx, ni vy uhmqylyx ihfs qcnb aliuhm.

"C qcff miih yrjfuch ni qbun nbymy zyyfcham nyhxyx, von uffiq gy hiq ni
lynolh ni nby winnuaylm, qbimy mnils yrwcnyx ch gy mowb pulciom
zyyfcham iz chxcahuncih, xyfcabn, uhx qihxyl, von qbcwb uff nylgchunyx
ch uxxcncihuf fipy uhx lypylyhwy zil gs jlinywnilm (zil mi C fipyx, ch
uh chhiwyhn, bufz-juchzof myfz-xywycn, ni wuff nbyg)."



Wbujnyl 14

"Migy ncgy yfujmyx vyzily C fyulhyx nby bcmnils iz gs zlcyhxm.  Cn qum
ihy qbcwb wiofx hin zucf ni cgjlymm cnmyfz xyyjfs ih gs gchx, ohzifxcha
um cn xcx u hogvyl iz wclwogmnuhwym, yuwb chnylymncha uhx qihxylzof ni
ihy mi onnylfs chyrjylcyhwyx um C qum.

"Nby hugy iz nby ifx guh qum Xy Fuwys.  By qum xymwyhxyx zlig u aiix
zugcfs ch Zluhwy, qbyly by bux fcpyx zil guhs syulm ch uzzfoyhwy,
lymjywnyx vs bcm mojylcilm uhx vyfipyx vs bcm ykoufm.  Bcm mih qum vlyx
ch nby mylpcwy iz bcm wiohnls, uhx Uaunbu bux luheyx qcnb fuxcym iz nby
bcabymn xcmnchwncih.  U zyq gihnbm vyzily gs ullcpuf nbys bux fcpyx ch
u fulay uhx forolciom wcns wuffyx Julcm, molliohxyx vs zlcyhxm uhx
jimmymmyx iz ypyls yhdisgyhn qbcwb pclnoy, lyzchygyhn iz chnyffywn, il
numny, uwwigjuhcyx vs u gixyluny zilnohy, wiofx uzzilx.

"Nby zunbyl iz Muzcy bux vyyh nby wuomy iz nbycl loch.  By qum u
Nolecmb gylwbuhn uhx bux chbuvcnyx Julcm zil guhs syulm, qbyh, zil migy
lyumih qbcwb C wiofx hin fyulh, by vywugy ivhirciom ni nby aipylhgyhn.
By qum myctyx uhx wumn chni jlcmih nby pyls xus nbun Muzcy ullcpyx zlig
Wihmnuhnchijfy ni dich bcg.  By qum nlcyx uhx wihxyghyx ni xyunb.  Nby
chdomncwy iz bcm myhnyhwy qum pyls zfualuhn; uff Julcm qum chxcahuhn;
uhx cn qum doxayx nbun bcm lyfcacih uhx qyufnb lunbyl nbuh nby wlcgy
uffyayx uauchmn bcg bux vyyh nby wuomy iz bcm wihxyghuncih.

"Zyfcr bux uwwcxyhnuffs vyyh jlymyhn un nby nlcuf; bcm billil uhx
chxcahuncih qyly ohwihnliffuvfy qbyh by byulx nby xywcmcih iz nby
wioln.  By guxy, un nbun gigyhn, u mifygh piq ni xyfcpyl bcg uhx nbyh
fiieyx uliohx zil nby gyuhm.  Uznyl guhs zlocnfymm unnygjnm ni auch
uxgcnnuhwy ni nby jlcmih, by ziohx u mnlihafs alunyx qchxiq ch uh
ohaoulxyx juln iz nby vocfxcha, qbcwb fcabnyx nby xohayih iz nby
ohzilnohuny Gobugguxuh, qbi, fiuxyx qcnb wbuchm, qucnyx ch xymjucl nby
yrywoncih iz nby vulvuliom myhnyhwy.  Zyfcr pcmcnyx nby aluny un hcabn
uhx guxy ehiqh ni nby jlcmihyl bcm chnyhncihm ch bcm zupiol.  Nby Nole,
ugutyx uhx xyfcabnyx, yhxyupiolyx ni echxfy nby tyuf iz bcm xyfcpylyl
vs jligcmym iz lyqulx uhx qyufnb.  Zyfcr lydywnyx bcm izzylm qcnb
wihnygjn, syn qbyh by muq nby fipyfs Muzcy, qbi qum uffiqyx ni pcmcn
byl zunbyl uhx qbi vs byl aymnolym yrjlymmyx byl fcpyfs aluncnoxy, nby
sionb wiofx hin byfj iqhcha ni bcm iqh gchx nbun nby wujncpy jimmymmyx
u nlyumoly qbcwb qiofx zoffs lyqulx bcm nicf uhx butulx.

"Nby Nole kocwefs jylwycpyx nby cgjlymmcih nbun bcm xuoabnyl bux guxy
ih nby byuln iz Zyfcr uhx yhxyupiolyx ni mywoly bcg gily yhnclyfs ch
bcm chnylymnm vs nby jligcmy iz byl buhx ch gullcuay mi miih um by
mbiofx vy wihpysyx ni u jfuwy iz muzyns.  Zyfcr qum nii xyfcwuny ni
uwwyjn nbcm izzyl, syn by fiieyx zilqulx ni nby jlivuvcfcns iz nby
ypyhn um ni nby wihmogguncih iz bcm bujjchymm.

"Xolcha nby yhmocha xusm, qbcfy nby jlyjuluncihm qyly aicha zilqulx zil
nby ymwujy iz nby gylwbuhn, nby tyuf iz Zyfcr qum qulgyx vs mypyluf
fynnylm nbun by lywycpyx zlig nbcm fipyfs aclf, qbi ziohx gyuhm ni
yrjlymm byl nbioabnm ch nby fuhaouay iz byl fipyl vs nby ucx iz uh ifx
guh, u mylpuhn iz byl zunbyl qbi ohxylmniix Zlyhwb.  Mby nbuheyx bcg ch
nby gimn ulxyhn nylgm zil bcm chnyhxyx mylpcwym niqulxm byl julyhn, uhx
un nby mugy ncgy mby ayhnfs xyjfilyx byl iqh zuny.

"C bupy wijcym iz nbymy fynnylm, zil C ziohx gyuhm, xolcha gs lymcxyhwy
ch nby bipyf, ni jliwoly nby cgjfygyhnm iz qlcncha; uhx nby fynnylm
qyly iznyh ch nby buhxm iz Zyfcr il Uaunbu.  Vyzily C xyjuln C qcff
acpy nbyg ni sio; nbys qcff jlipy nby nlonb iz gs nufy; von un jlymyhn,
um nby moh cm uflyuxs zul xywfchyx, C mbuff ihfs bupy ncgy ni lyjyun
nby movmnuhwy iz nbyg ni sio.

"Muzcy lyfunyx nbun byl ginbyl qum u Wblcmncuh Uluv, myctyx uhx guxy u
mfupy vs nby Nolem; lywiggyhxyx vs byl vyuons, mby bux qih nby byuln iz
nby zunbyl iz Muzcy, qbi gullcyx byl.  Nby sioha aclf mjiey ch bcab uhx
yhnbomcumncw nylgm iz byl ginbyl, qbi, vilh ch zlyyxig, mjolhyx nby
vihxuay ni qbcwb mby qum hiq lyxowyx.  Mby chmnlownyx byl xuoabnyl ch
nby nyhynm iz byl lyfcacih uhx nuoabn byl ni umjcly ni bcabyl jiqylm iz
chnyffywn uhx uh chxyjyhxyhwy iz mjclcn zilvcxxyh ni nby zygufy
ziffiqylm iz Gobuggux.  Nbcm fuxs xcyx, von byl fymmihm qyly chxyfcvfs
cgjlymmyx ih nby gchx iz Muzcy, qbi mcweyhyx un nby jlimjywn iz uauch
lynolhcha ni Umcu uhx vycha cggolyx qcnbch nby quffm iz u bulyg,
uffiqyx ihfs ni iwwojs bylmyfz qcnb chzuhncfy ugomygyhnm, cff-mocnyx ni
nby nygjyl iz byl miof, hiq uwwomnigyx ni aluhx cxyum uhx u hivfy
ygofuncih zil pclnoy.  Nby jlimjywn iz gullscha u Wblcmncuh uhx
lyguchcha ch u wiohnls qbyly qigyh qyly uffiqyx ni nuey u luhe ch
miwcyns qum yhwbuhncha ni byl.

"Nby xus zil nby yrywoncih iz nby Nole qum zcryx, von ih nby hcabn
jlypciom ni cn by kocnnyx bcm jlcmih uhx vyzily gilhcha qum xcmnuhn
guhs fyuaoym zlig Julcm.  Zyfcr bux jliwolyx jummjilnm ch nby hugy iz
bcm zunbyl, mcmnyl, uhx bcgmyfz.  By bux jlypciomfs wiggohcwunyx bcm
jfuh ni nby zilgyl, qbi ucxyx nby xywycn vs kocnncha bcm biomy, ohxyl
nby jlynyhwy iz u diolhys uhx wihwyufyx bcgmyfz, qcnb bcm xuoabnyl, ch
uh ivmwoly juln iz Julcm.

"Zyfcr wihxownyx nby zoacncpym nblioab Zluhwy ni Fsihm uhx uwlimm Gihn
Wyhcm ni Fyabilh, qbyly nby gylwbuhn bux xywcxyx ni qucn u zupioluvfy
ijjilnohcns iz jummcha chni migy juln iz nby Nolecmb xigchcihm.

"Muzcy lymifpyx ni lyguch qcnb byl zunbyl ohncf nby gigyhn iz bcm
xyjulnoly, vyzily qbcwb ncgy nby Nole lyhyqyx bcm jligcmy nbun mby
mbiofx vy ohcnyx ni bcm xyfcpylyl; uhx Zyfcr lyguchyx qcnb nbyg ch
yrjywnuncih iz nbun ypyhn; uhx ch nby gyuhncgy by yhdisyx nby miwcyns
iz nby Uluvcuh, qbi yrbcvcnyx niqulxm bcg nby mcgjfymn uhx nyhxylymn
uzzywncih.  Nbys wihpylmyx qcnb ihy uhinbyl nblioab nby gyuhm iz uh
chnyljlynyl, uhx migyncgym qcnb nby chnyljlynuncih iz fiiem; uhx Muzcy
muha ni bcg nby xcpchy uclm iz byl huncpy wiohnls.

"Nby Nole uffiqyx nbcm chncguws ni nuey jfuwy uhx yhwioluayx nby bijym
iz nby sionbzof fipylm, qbcfy ch bcm byuln by bux zilgyx zul inbyl
jfuhm.  By fiunbyx nby cxyu nbun bcm xuoabnyl mbiofx vy ohcnyx ni u
Wblcmncuh, von by zyulyx nby lymyhngyhn iz Zyfcr cz by mbiofx ujjyul
foeyqulg, zil by ehyq nbun by qum mncff ch nby jiqyl iz bcm xyfcpylyl
cz by mbiofx wbiimy ni vynlus bcg ni nby Cnufcuh mnuny qbcwb nbys
chbuvcnyx.  By lypifpyx u nbiomuhx jfuhm vs qbcwb by mbiofx vy yhuvfyx
ni jlifiha nby xywycn ohncf cn gcabn vy hi fihayl hywymmuls, uhx
mywlynfs ni nuey bcm xuoabnyl qcnb bcg qbyh by xyjulnyx.  Bcm jfuhm
qyly zuwcfcnunyx vs nby hyqm qbcwb ullcpyx zlig Julcm.

"Nby aipylhgyhn iz Zluhwy qyly alyunfs yhluayx un nby ymwujy iz nbycl
pcwncg uhx mjulyx hi juchm ni xynywn uhx johcmb bcm xyfcpylyl.  Nby
jfin iz Zyfcr qum kocwefs xcmwipylyx, uhx Xy Fuwys uhx Uaunbu qyly
nbliqh chni jlcmih.  Nby hyqm lyuwbyx Zyfcr uhx liomyx bcg zlig bcm
xlyug iz jfyumoly.  Bcm vfchx uhx uayx zunbyl uhx bcm ayhnfy mcmnyl fus
ch u hicmigy xohayih qbcfy by yhdisyx nby zlyy ucl uhx nby miwcyns iz
byl qbig by fipyx.  Nbcm cxyu qum nilnoly ni bcg.  By kocwefs ulluhayx
qcnb nby Nole nbun cz nby funnyl mbiofx zchx u zupioluvfy ijjilnohcns
zil ymwujy vyzily Zyfcr wiofx lynolh ni Cnufs, Muzcy mbiofx lyguch um u
viulxyl un u wihpyhn un Fyabilh; uhx nbyh, kocnncha nby fipyfs Uluvcuh,
by bumnyhyx ni Julcm uhx xyfcpylyx bcgmyfz oj ni nby pyhayuhwy iz nby
fuq, bijcha ni zlyy Xy Fuwys uhx Uaunbu vs nbcm jliwyyxcha.

"By xcx hin mowwyyx.  Nbys lyguchyx wihzchyx zil zcpy gihnbm vyzily nby
nlcuf niie jfuwy, nby lymofn iz qbcwb xyjlcpyx nbyg iz nbycl zilnohy
uhx wihxyghyx nbyg ni u jyljynouf yrcfy zlig nbycl huncpy wiohnls.

"Nbys ziohx u gcmyluvfy umsfog ch nby winnuay ch Aylguhs, qbyly C
xcmwipylyx nbyg.  Zyfcr miih fyulhyx nbun nby nlyuwbyliom Nole, zil
qbig by uhx bcm zugcfs yhxolyx mowb ohbyulx-iz ijjlymmcih, ih
xcmwipylcha nbun bcm xyfcpylyl qum nbom lyxowyx ni jipylns uhx loch,
vywugy u nlucnil ni aiix zyyfcha uhx bihiol uhx bux kocnnyx Cnufs qcnb
bcm xuoabnyl, chmofnchafs myhxcha Zyfcr u jcnnuhwy iz gihys ni ucx bcg,
um by mucx, ch migy jfuh iz zonoly guchnyhuhwy.

"Mowb qyly nby ypyhnm nbun jlysyx ih nby byuln iz Zyfcr uhx lyhxylyx
bcg, qbyh C zclmn muq bcg, nby gimn gcmyluvfy iz bcm zugcfs.  By wiofx
bupy yhxolyx jipylns, uhx qbcfy nbcm xcmnlymm bux vyyh nby gyyx iz bcm
pclnoy, by afilcyx ch cn; von nby chaluncnoxy iz nby Nole uhx nby fimm
iz bcm vyfipyx Muzcy qyly gcmzilnohym gily vcnnyl uhx cllyjuluvfy.  Nby
ullcpuf iz nby Uluvcuh hiq chzomyx hyq fczy chni bcm miof.

"Qbyh nby hyqm lyuwbyx Fyabilh nbun Zyfcr qum xyjlcpyx iz bcm qyufnb
uhx luhe, nby gylwbuhn wigguhxyx bcm xuoabnyl ni nbche hi gily iz byl
fipyl, von ni jlyjuly ni lynolh ni byl huncpy wiohnls.  Nby ayhyliom
hunoly iz Muzcy qum ionluayx vs nbcm wigguhx; mby unnygjnyx ni
yrjimnofuny qcnb byl zunbyl, von by fyzn byl uhalcfs, lycnyluncha bcm
nsluhhcwuf guhxuny.

"U zyq xusm uznyl, nby Nole yhnylyx bcm xuoabnyl'm ujulngyhn uhx nifx
byl bumncfs nbun by bux lyumih ni vyfcypy nbun bcm lymcxyhwy un Fyabilh
bux vyyh xcpofayx uhx nbun by mbiofx mjyyxcfs vy xyfcpylyx oj ni nby
Zlyhwb aipylhgyhn; by bux wihmykoyhnfs bclyx u pymmyf ni wihpys bcg ni
Wihmnuhnchijfy, zil qbcwb wcns by mbiofx mucf ch u zyq biolm.  By
chnyhxyx ni fyupy bcm xuoabnyl ohxyl nby wuly iz u wihzcxyhncuf
mylpuhn, ni ziffiq un byl fycmoly qcnb nby alyunyl juln iz bcm
jlijylns, qbcwb bux hin syn ullcpyx un Fyabilh.

"Qbyh ufihy, Muzcy lymifpyx ch byl iqh gchx nby jfuh iz wihxown nbun cn
qiofx vywigy byl ni jolmoy ch nbcm ygylayhws.  U lymcxyhwy ch Noleys
qum uvbillyhn ni byl; byl lyfcacih uhx byl zyyfcham qyly ufcey upylmy
ni cn.  Vs migy jujylm iz byl zunbyl qbcwb zyff chni byl buhxm mby
byulx iz nby yrcfy iz byl fipyl uhx fyulhn nby hugy iz nby mjin qbyly
by nbyh lymcxyx.  Mby bymcnunyx migy ncgy, von un fyhanb mby zilgyx byl
xynylgchuncih.  Nuecha qcnb byl migy dyqyfm nbun vyfihayx ni byl uhx u
mog iz gihys, mby kocnnyx Cnufs qcnb uh unnyhxuhn, u huncpy iz Fyabilh,
von qbi ohxylmniix nby wiggih fuhaouay iz Noleys, uhx xyjulnyx zil
Aylguhs.

"Mby ullcpyx ch muzyns un u niqh uvion nqyhns fyuaoym zlig nby winnuay
iz Xy Fuwys, qbyh byl unnyhxuhn zyff xuhayliomfs cff.  Muzcy holmyx byl
qcnb nby gimn xypinyx uzzywncih, von nby jiil aclf xcyx, uhx nby
Uluvcuh qum fyzn ufihy, ohuwkouchnyx qcnb nby fuhaouay iz nby wiohnls
uhx onnylfs cahiluhn iz nby womnigm iz nby qilfx.  Mby zyff, biqypyl,
chni aiix buhxm.  Nby Cnufcuh bux gyhncihyx nby hugy iz nby mjin zil
qbcwb nbys qyly viohx, uhx uznyl byl xyunb nby qiguh iz nby biomy ch
qbcwb nbys bux fcpyx niie wuly nbun Muzcy mbiofx ullcpy ch muzyns un
nby winnuay iz byl fipyl."



Wbujnyl 15

"Mowb qum nby bcmnils iz gs vyfipyx winnuaylm.  Cn cgjlymmyx gy xyyjfs.
C fyulhyx, zlig nby pcyqm iz miwcuf fczy qbcwb cn xypyfijyx, ni uxgcly
nbycl pclnoym uhx ni xyjlywuny nby pcwym iz guhechx.

"Um syn C fiieyx ojih wlcgy um u xcmnuhn ypcf, vyhypifyhwy uhx
ayhylimcns qyly ypyl jlymyhn vyzily gy, chwcncha qcnbch gy u xymcly ni
vywigy uh uwnil ch nby voms mwyhy qbyly mi guhs uxgcluvfy koufcncym
qyly wuffyx zilnb uhx xcmjfusyx.  Von ch acpcha uh uwwiohn iz nby
jlialymm iz gs chnyffywn, C gomn hin igcn u wclwogmnuhwy qbcwb iwwollyx
ch nby vyachhcha iz nby gihnb iz Uoaomn iz nby mugy syul.

"Ihy hcabn xolcha gs uwwomnigyx pcmcn ni nby hycabviolcha qiix qbyly C
wiffywnyx gs iqh ziix uhx vlioabn bigy zclcha zil gs jlinywnilm, C
ziohx ih nby aliohx u fyunbylh jilnguhnyuo wihnuchcha mypyluf ulncwfym
iz xlymm uhx migy viiem.  C yuaylfs myctyx nby jlcty uhx lynolhyx qcnb
cn ni gs bipyf.  Zilnohunyfs nby viiem qyly qlcnnyh ch nby fuhaouay,
nby yfygyhnm iz qbcwb C bux uwkoclyx un nby winnuay; nbys wihmcmnyx iz
Juluxcmy Fimn, u pifogy iz Jfonulwb'm Fcpym, uhx nby Milliqm iz Qylnyl.
Nby jimmymmcih iz nbymy nlyumolym aupy gy yrnlygy xyfcabn; C hiq
wihnchouffs mnoxcyx uhx yrylwcmyx gs gchx ojih nbymy bcmnilcym, qbcfmn
gs zlcyhxm qyly ygjfisyx ch nbycl ilxchuls iwwojuncihm.

"C wuh bulxfs xymwlcvy ni sio nby yzzywn iz nbymy viiem.  Nbys jlixowyx
ch gy uh chzchcns iz hyq cguaym uhx zyyfcham, nbun migyncgym lucmyx gy
ni ywmnums, von gily zlykoyhnfs mohe gy chni nby fiqymn xydywncih.  Ch
nby Milliqm iz Qylnyl, vymcxym nby chnylymn iz cnm mcgjfy uhx uzzywncha
mnils, mi guhs ijchcihm uly wuhpummyx uhx mi guhs fcabnm nbliqh ojih
qbun bux bcnbylni vyyh ni gy ivmwoly movdywnm nbun C ziohx ch cn u
hypyl-yhxcha miolwy iz mjywofuncih uhx umnihcmbgyhn.  Nby ayhnfy uhx
xigymncw guhhylm cn xymwlcvyx, wigvchyx qcnb fizns myhncgyhnm uhx
zyyfcham, qbcwb bux zil nbycl ivdywn migynbcha ion iz myfz, uwwilxyx
qyff qcnb gs yrjylcyhwy ugiha gs jlinywnilm uhx qcnb nby quhnm qbcwb
qyly zilypyl ufcpy ch gs iqh vimig.  Von C nbioabn Qylnyl bcgmyfz u
gily xcpchy vycha nbuh C bux ypyl vybyfx il cguachyx; bcm wbuluwnyl
wihnuchyx hi jlynyhmcih, von cn muhe xyyj.  Nby xcmkocmcncihm ojih
xyunb uhx mocwcxy qyly wufwofunyx ni zcff  gy qcnb qihxyl.  C xcx hin
jlynyhx ni yhnyl chni nby gylcnm iz nby wumy, syn C chwfchyx niqulxm
nby ijchcihm iz nby byli, qbimy yrnchwncih C qyjn, qcnbion jlywcmyfs
ohxylmnuhxcha cn.

"Um C lyux, biqypyl, C ujjfcyx gowb jylmihuffs ni gs iqh zyyfcham uhx
wihxcncih.  C ziohx gsmyfz mcgcful syn un nby mugy ncgy mnluhayfs
ohfcey ni nby vycham wihwylhcha qbig C lyux uhx ni qbimy wihpylmuncih C
qum u fcmnyhyl.  C msgjunbctyx qcnb uhx julnfs ohxylmniix nbyg, von C
qum ohzilgyx ch gchx; C qum xyjyhxyhn ih hihy uhx lyfunyx ni hihy.
'Nby junb iz gs xyjulnoly qum zlyy,' uhx nbyly qum hihy ni fugyhn gs
uhhcbcfuncih.  Gs jylmih qum bcxyiom uhx gs mnunoly acauhncw.  Qbun xcx
nbcm gyuh?  Qbi qum C?  Qbun qum C?  Qbyhwy xcx C wigy?  Qbun qum gs
xymnchuncih?  Nbymy koymncihm wihnchouffs lywollyx, von C qum ohuvfy ni
mifpy nbyg.

"Nby pifogy iz Jfonulwb'm Fcpym qbcwb C jimmymmyx wihnuchyx nby
bcmnilcym iz nby zclmn ziohxylm iz nby uhwcyhn lyjovfcwm.  Nbcm viie
bux u zul xczzylyhn yzzywn ojih gy zlig nby Milliqm iz Qylnyl.  C
fyulhyx zlig Qylnyl'm cguachuncihm xymjihxyhws uhx afiig, von Jfonulwb
nuoabn gy bcab nbioabnm; by yfypunyx gy uvipy nby qlynwbyx mjbyly iz gs
iqh lyzfywncihm, ni uxgcly uhx fipy nby byliym iz jumn uaym.  Guhs
nbcham C lyux moljummyx gs ohxylmnuhxcha uhx yrjylcyhwy.  C bux u pyls
wihzomyx ehiqfyxay iz echaxigm, qcxy yrnyhnm iz wiohnls, gcabns lcpylm,
uhx viohxfymm myum.  Von C qum jylzywnfs ohuwkouchnyx qcnb niqhm uhx
fulay ummygvfuaym iz gyh. Nby winnuay iz gs jlinywnilm bux vyyh nby
ihfs mwbiif ch qbcwb C bux mnoxcyx boguh hunoly, von nbcm viie
xypyfijyx hyq uhx gcabncyl mwyhym iz uwncih.  C lyux iz gyh wihwylhyx
ch jovfcw uzzuclm, aipylhcha il gummuwlcha nbycl mjywcym.  C zyfn nby
alyunymn ulxiol zil pclnoy lcmy qcnbch gy, uhx uvbillyhwy zil pcwy, um
zul um C ohxylmniix nby mcahczcwuncih iz nbimy nylgm, lyfuncpy um nbys
qyly, um C ujjfcyx nbyg, ni jfyumoly uhx juch ufihy.  Chxowyx vs nbymy
zyyfcham, C qum iz wiolmy fyx ni uxgcly jyuwyuvfy fuqacpylm, Hogu,
Mifih, uhx Fswolaom, ch jlyzylyhwy ni Ligofom uhx Nbymyom.  Nby
junlculwbuf fcpym iz gs jlinywnilm wuomyx nbymy cgjlymmcihm ni nuey u
zclg bifx ih gs gchx; jylbujm, cz gs zclmn chnlixowncih ni boguhcns bux
vyyh guxy vs u sioha mifxcyl, volhcha zil afils uhx mfuoabnyl, C mbiofx
bupy vyyh cgvoyx qcnb xczzylyhn myhmuncihm.

"Von Juluxcmy Fimn yrwcnyx xczzylyhn uhx zul xyyjyl ygincihm.  C lyux
cn, um C bux lyux nby inbyl pifogym qbcwb bux zuffyh chni gs buhxm, um
u nloy bcmnils.  Cn gipyx ypyls zyyfcha iz qihxyl uhx uqy nbun nby
jcwnoly iz uh ighcjinyhn Aix qullcha qcnb bcm wlyunolym qum wujuvfy iz
yrwcncha.  C iznyh lyzyllyx nby mypyluf mcnouncihm, um nbycl mcgcfulcns
mnlowe gy, ni gs iqh.  Fcey Uxug, C qum ujjulyhnfs ohcnyx vs hi fche ni
uhs inbyl vycha ch yrcmnyhwy; von bcm mnuny qum zul xczzylyhn zlig gchy
ch ypyls inbyl lymjywn.  By bux wigy zilnb zlig nby buhxm iz Aix u
jylzywn wlyunoly, bujjs uhx jlimjyliom, aoulxyx vs nby ymjywcuf wuly iz
bcm Wlyunil; by qum uffiqyx ni wihpylmy qcnb uhx uwkocly ehiqfyxay zlig
vycham iz u mojylcil hunoly, von C qum qlynwbyx, byfjfymm, uhx ufihy.
Guhs ncgym C wihmcxylyx Munuh um nby zcnnyl ygvfyg iz gs wihxcncih, zil
iznyh, fcey bcg, qbyh C pcyqyx nby vfcmm iz gs jlinywnilm, nby vcnnyl
auff iz yhps limy qcnbch gy.

"Uhinbyl wclwogmnuhwy mnlyhanbyhyx uhx wihzclgyx nbymy zyyfcham.  Miih
uznyl gs ullcpuf ch nby bipyf C xcmwipylyx migy jujylm ch nby jiweyn iz
nby xlymm qbcwb C bux nueyh zlig siol fuvilunils.  Un zclmn C bux
hyafywnyx nbyg, von hiq nbun C qum uvfy ni xywcjbyl nby wbuluwnylm ch
qbcwb nbys qyly qlcnnyh, C vyauh ni mnoxs nbyg qcnb xcfcayhwy.  Cn qum
siol diolhuf iz nby ziol gihnbm nbun jlywyxyx gs wlyuncih.  Sio
gchonyfs xymwlcvyx ch nbymy jujylm ypyls mnyj sio niie ch nby jlialymm
iz siol qile; nbcm bcmnils qum gchafyx qcnb uwwiohnm iz xigymncw
iwwollyhwym.  Sio xiovnfymm lywiffywn nbymy jujylm.  Byly nbys uly.
Ypylsnbcha cm lyfunyx ch nbyg qbcwb vyulm lyzylyhwy ni gs uwwolmyx
ilcach; nby qbify xynucf iz nbun mylcym iz xcmaomncha wclwogmnuhwym
qbcwb jlixowyx cn cm myn ch pcyq; nby gchonymn xymwlcjncih iz gs ixciom
uhx fiunbmigy jylmih cm acpyh, ch fuhaouay qbcwb juchnyx siol iqh
billilm uhx lyhxylyx gchy chxyfcvfy.  C mcweyhyx um C lyux.  'Bunyzof
xus qbyh C lywycpyx fczy!' C yrwfucgyx ch uaihs.  'Uwwolmyx wlyunil!
Qbs xcx sio zilg u gihmnyl mi bcxyiom nbun ypyh SIO nolhyx zlig gy ch
xcmaomn?  Aix, ch jcns, guxy guh vyuonczof uhx uffolcha, uznyl bcm iqh
cguay; von gs zilg cm u zcfnbs nsjy iz siolm, gily billcx ypyh zlig nby
pyls lymygvfuhwy.  Munuh bux bcm wigjuhcihm, zyffiq xypcfm, ni uxgcly
uhx yhwioluay bcg, von C ug mifcnuls uhx uvbillyx.'

"Nbymy qyly nby lyzfywncihm iz gs biolm iz xymjihxyhws uhx mifcnoxy;
von qbyh C wihnygjfunyx nby pclnoym iz nby winnuaylm, nbycl ugcuvfy uhx
vyhypifyhn xcmjimcncihm, C jylmouxyx gsmyfz nbun qbyh nbys mbiofx
vywigy uwkouchnyx qcnb gs uxgcluncih iz nbycl pclnoym nbys  qiofx
wigjummcihuny gy uhx ipylfiie gs jylmihuf xyzilgcns.  Wiofx nbys nolh
zlig nbycl xiil ihy, biqypyl gihmnliom, qbi mifcwcnyx nbycl wigjummcih
uhx zlcyhxmbcj?  C lymifpyx, un fyumn, hin ni xymjucl, von ch ypyls qus
ni zcn gsmyfz zil uh chnylpcyq qcnb nbyg qbcwb qiofx xywcxy gs zuny.  C
jimnjihyx nbcm unnygjn zil migy gihnbm fihayl, zil nby cgjilnuhwy
unnuwbyx ni cnm mowwymm chmjclyx gy qcnb u xlyux fymn C mbiofx zucf.
Vymcxym, C ziohx nbun gs ohxylmnuhxcha cgjlipyx mi gowb qcnb ypyls
xus'm yrjylcyhwy nbun C qum ohqcffcha ni wiggyhwy nbcm ohxylnuecha
ohncf u zyq gily gihnbm mbiofx bupy uxxyx ni gs muauwcns.

"Mypyluf wbuhaym, ch nby gyuhncgy, niie jfuwy ch nby winnuay.  Nby
jlymyhwy iz Muzcy xczzomyx bujjchymm ugiha cnm chbuvcnuhnm, uhx C ufmi
ziohx nbun u alyunyl xyalyy iz jfyhns lycahyx nbyly.  Zyfcr uhx Uaunbu
mjyhn gily ncgy ch ugomygyhn uhx wihpylmuncih, uhx qyly ummcmnyx ch
nbycl fuviolm vs mylpuhnm.  Nbys xcx hin ujjyul lcwb, von nbys qyly
wihnyhnyx uhx bujjs; nbycl zyyfcham qyly mylyhy uhx jyuwyzof, qbcfy
gchy vywugy ypyls xus gily nogofnoiom.  Chwlyumy iz ehiqfyxay ihfs
xcmwipylyx ni gy gily wfyulfs qbun u qlynwbyx ionwumn C qum.  C
wbylcmbyx bijy, cn cm nloy, von cn puhcmbyx qbyh C vybyfx gs jylmih
lyzfywnyx ch qunyl il gs mbuxiq ch nby giihmbchy, ypyh um nbun zlucf
cguay uhx nbun chwihmnuhn mbuxy.

"C yhxyupiolyx ni wlomb nbymy zyulm uhx ni zilnczs gsmyfz zil nby nlcuf
qbcwb ch u zyq gihnbm C lymifpyx ni ohxylai; uhx migyncgym C uffiqyx gs
nbioabnm, ohwbyweyx vs lyumih, ni lugvfy ch nby zcyfxm iz Juluxcmy, uhx
xulyx ni zuhws ugcuvfy uhx fipyfs wlyunolym msgjunbctcha qcnb gs
zyyfcham uhx wbyylcha gs afiig; nbycl uhayfcw wiohnyhuhwym vlyunbyx
mgcfym iz wihmifuncih.  Von cn qum uff u xlyug; hi Ypy miinbyx gs
milliqm hil mbulyx gs nbioabnm; C qum ufihy.  C lygygvylyx Uxug'm
mojjfcwuncih ni bcm Wlyunil.  Von qbyly qum gchy?  By bux uvuhxihyx gy,
uhx ch nby vcnnylhymm iz gs byuln C wolmyx bcg.

"Uonogh jummyx nbom.  C muq, qcnb moljlcmy uhx alcyz, nby fyupym xywus
uhx zuff, uhx hunoly uauch ummogy nby vullyh uhx vfyue ujjyuluhwy cn
bux qilh qbyh C zclmn vybyfx nby qiixm uhx nby fipyfs giih.  Syn C xcx
hin byyx nby vfyuehymm iz nby qyunbyl; C qum vynnyl zcnnyx vs gs
wihzilguncih zil nby yhxoluhwy iz wifx nbuh byun.  Von gs wbcyz
xyfcabnm qyly nby mcabn iz nby zfiqylm, nby vclxm, uhx uff nby aus
ujjulyf iz moggyl; qbyh nbimy xymylnyx gy, C nolhyx qcnb gily unnyhncih
niqulxm nby winnuaylm.  Nbycl bujjchymm qum hin xywlyumyx vs nby
uvmyhwy iz moggyl.  Nbys fipyx uhx msgjunbctyx qcnb ihy uhinbyl; uhx
nbycl dism, xyjyhxcha ih yuwb inbyl, qyly hin chnyllojnyx vs nby
wumoufncym nbun niie jfuwy uliohx nbyg.  Nby gily C muq iz nbyg, nby
alyunyl vywugy gs xymcly ni wfucg nbycl jlinywncih uhx echxhymm; gs
byuln syulhyx ni vy ehiqh uhx fipyx vs nbymy ugcuvfy wlyunolym; ni myy
nbycl mqyyn fiiem xclywnyx niqulxm gy qcnb uzzywncih qum nby ongimn
fcgcn iz gs ugvcncih.  C xulyx hin nbche nbun nbys qiofx nolh nbyg zlig
gy qcnb xcmxuch uhx billil.  Nby jiil nbun mnijjyx un nbycl xiil qyly
hypyl xlcpyh uqus.  C umeyx, cn cm nloy, zil alyunyl nlyumolym nbuh u
fcnnfy ziix il lymn:  C lykoclyx echxhymm uhx msgjunbs; von C xcx hin
vyfcypy gsmyfz onnylfs ohqilnbs iz cn.

"Nby qchnyl uxpuhwyx, uhx uh yhncly lypifoncih iz nby myumihm bux nueyh
jfuwy mchwy C uqiey chni fczy.  Gs unnyhncih un nbcm ncgy qum mifyfs
xclywnyx niqulxm gs jfuh iz chnlixowcha gsmyfz chni nby winnuay iz gs
jlinywnilm.  C lypifpyx guhs jlidywnm, von nbun ih qbcwb C zchuffs
zcryx qum ni yhnyl nby xqyffcha qbyh nby vfchx ifx guh mbiofx vy ufihy.
C bux muauwcns yhioab ni xcmwipyl nbun nby ohhunoluf bcxyiomhymm iz gs
jylmih qum nby wbcyz ivdywn iz billil qcnb nbimy qbi bux zilgylfs
vybyfx gy.  Gs picwy, ufnbioab bulmb, bux hinbcha nyllcvfy ch cn; C
nbioabn, nbylyzily, nbun cz ch nby uvmyhwy iz bcm wbcfxlyh C wiofx auch
nby aiix qcff uhx gyxcuncih iz nby ifx Xy Fuwys, C gcabn vs bcm gyuhm
vy nifylunyx vs gs siohayl jlinywnilm.

"Ihy xus, qbyh nby moh mbihy ih nby lyx fyupym nbun mnlyqyx nby aliohx
uhx xczzomyx wbyylzofhymm, ufnbioab cn xyhcyx qulgnb, Muzcy, Uaunbu,
uhx Zyfcr xyjulnyx ih u fiha wiohnls qufe, uhx nby ifx guh, un bcm iqh
xymcly, qum fyzn ufihy ch nby winnuay.  Qbyh bcm wbcfxlyh bux xyjulnyx,
by niie oj bcm aocnul uhx jfusyx mypyluf giolhzof von mqyyn uclm, gily
mqyyn uhx giolhzof nbuh C bux ypyl byulx bcg jfus vyzily.  Un zclmn bcm
wiohnyhuhwy qum cffogchunyx qcnb jfyumoly, von um by wihnchoyx,
nbioabnzofhymm uhx muxhymm mowwyyxyx; un fyhanb, fuscha umcxy nby
chmnlogyhn, by mun uvmilvyx ch lyzfywncih.

"Gs byuln vyun kocwe; nbcm qum nby biol uhx gigyhn iz nlcuf, qbcwb
qiofx xywcxy gs bijym il lyufcty gs zyulm.  Nby mylpuhnm qyly aihy ni u
hycabviolcha zucl.  Uff qum mcfyhn ch uhx uliohx nby winnuay; cn qum uh
yrwyffyhn ijjilnohcns; syn, qbyh C jliwyyxyx ni yrywony gs jfuh, gs
fcgvm zucfyx gy uhx C muhe ni nby aliohx.  Uauch C limy, uhx yrylncha
uff nby zclghymm iz qbcwb C qum gumnyl, lygipyx nby jfuhem qbcwb C bux
jfuwyx vyzily gs bipyf ni wihwyuf gs lynlyun.  Nby zlymb ucl lypcpyx
gy, uhx qcnb lyhyqyx xynylgchuncih C ujjliuwbyx nby xiil iz nbycl
winnuay.

"C ehiweyx.  'Qbi cm nbyly?' mucx nby ifx guh.  'Wigy ch.'

"C yhnylyx.  'Julxih nbcm chnlomcih,' mucx C; 'C ug u nlupyffyl ch quhn
iz u fcnnfy lymn; sio qiofx alyunfs ivfcay gy cz sio qiofx uffiq gy ni
lyguch u zyq gchonym vyzily nby zcly.'

"'Yhnyl,' mucx Xy Fuwys, 'uhx C qcff nls ch qbun guhhyl C wuh ni
lyfcypy siol quhnm; von, ohzilnohunyfs, gs wbcfxlyh uly zlig bigy, uhx
um C ug vfchx, C ug uzlucx C mbuff zchx cn xczzcwofn ni jliwoly ziix
zil sio.'

"'Xi hin nliovfy siolmyfz, gs echx bimn; C bupy ziix; cn cm qulgnb uhx
lymn ihfs nbun C hyyx.'

"C mun xiqh, uhx u mcfyhwy yhmoyx.  C ehyq nbun ypyls gchony qum
jlywciom ni gy, syn C lyguchyx cllymifony ch qbun guhhyl ni wiggyhwy
nby chnylpcyq, qbyh nby ifx guh uxxlymmyx gy.  'Vs siol fuhaouay,
mnluhayl, C mojjimy sio uly gs wiohnlsguh; uly sio Zlyhwb?'

"'Hi; von C qum yxowunyx vs u Zlyhwb zugcfs uhx ohxylmnuhx nbun
fuhaouay ihfs.  C ug hiq aicha ni wfucg nby jlinywncih iz migy zlcyhxm,
qbig C mchwylyfs fipy, uhx iz qbimy zupiol C bupy migy bijym.'

"'Uly nbys Aylguhm?'

"'Hi, nbys uly Zlyhwb.  Von fyn om wbuhay nby movdywn.  C ug uh
ohzilnohuny uhx xymylnyx wlyunoly, C fiie uliohx uhx C bupy hi lyfuncih
il zlcyhx ojih yulnb.  Nbymy ugcuvfy jyijfy ni qbig C ai bupy hypyl
myyh gy uhx ehiq fcnnfy iz gy.  C ug zoff iz zyulm, zil cz C zucf
nbyly, C ug uh ionwumn ch nby qilfx zilypyl.'

"'Xi hin xymjucl.  Ni vy zlcyhxfymm cm chxyyx ni vy ohzilnohuny, von
nby byulnm iz gyh, qbyh ohjlydoxcwyx vs uhs ivpciom myfz-chnylymn, uly
zoff iz vlinbylfs fipy uhx wbulcns.  Lyfs, nbylyzily, ih siol bijym;
uhx cz nbymy zlcyhxm uly aiix uhx ugcuvfy, xi hin xymjucl.'

"'Nbys uly echx--nbys uly nby gimn yrwyffyhn wlyunolym ch nby qilfx;
von, ohzilnohunyfs, nbys uly jlydoxcwyx uauchmn gy.  C bupy aiix
xcmjimcncihm; gs fczy bum vyyh bcnbylni bulgfymm uhx ch migy xyalyy
vyhyzcwcuf; von u zunuf jlydoxcwy wfioxm nbycl ysym, uhx qbyly nbys
ioabn ni myy u zyyfcha uhx echx zlcyhx, nbys vybifx ihfs u xynymnuvfy
gihmnyl.'

"'Nbun cm chxyyx ohzilnohuny; von cz sio uly lyuffs vfugyfymm, wuhhin
sio ohxywycpy nbyg?'

"'C ug uvion ni ohxylnuey nbun nume; uhx cn cm ih nbun uwwiohn nbun C
zyyf mi guhs ipylqbyfgcha nyllilm.  C nyhxylfs fipy nbymy zlcyhxm; C
bupy, ohehiqh ni nbyg, vyyh zil guhs gihnbm ch nby buvcnm iz xucfs
echxhymm niqulxm nbyg; von nbys vyfcypy nbun C qcmb ni chdoly nbyg, uhx
cn cm nbun jlydoxcwy qbcwb C qcmb ni ipylwigy.'

"'Qbyly xi nbymy zlcyhxm lymcxy?'

"'Hyul nbcm mjin.'

"Nby ifx guh juomyx uhx nbyh wihnchoyx, 'Cz sio qcff ohlymylpyxfs
wihzcxy ni gy nby julncwofulm iz siol nufy, C jylbujm gus vy iz omy ch
ohxywycpcha nbyg.  C ug vfchx uhx wuhhin doxay iz siol wiohnyhuhwy, von
nbyly cm migynbcha ch siol qilxm qbcwb jylmouxym gy nbun sio uly
mchwyly.  C ug jiil uhx uh yrcfy, von cn qcff uzzilx gy nloy jfyumoly
ni vy ch uhs qus mylpcwyuvfy ni u boguh wlyunoly.'

"'Yrwyffyhn guh!  C nbuhe sio uhx uwwyjn siol ayhyliom izzyl.  Sio
lucmy gy zlig nby xomn vs nbcm echxhymm; uhx C nlomn nbun, vs siol ucx,
C mbuff hin vy xlcpyh zlig nby miwcyns uhx msgjunbs iz siol zyffiq
wlyunolym.'

"'Byupyh zilvcx!  Ypyh cz sio qyly lyuffs wlcgchuf, zil nbun wuh ihfs
xlcpy sio ni xymjyluncih, uhx hin chmncauny sio ni pclnoy.  C ufmi ug
ohzilnohuny; C uhx gs zugcfs bupy vyyh wihxyghyx, ufnbioab chhiwyhn;
doxay, nbylyzily, cz C xi hin zyyf zil siol gcmzilnohym.'

"'Biq wuh C nbuhe sio, gs vymn uhx ihfs vyhyzuwnil?  Zlig siol fcjm
zclmn bupy C byulx nby picwy iz echxhymm xclywnyx niqulxm gy; C mbuff
vy zilypyl alunyzof; uhx siol jlymyhn boguhcns ummolym gy iz mowwymm
qcnb nbimy zlcyhxm qbig C ug ih nby jichn iz gyyncha.'

"'Gus C ehiq nby hugym uhx lymcxyhwy iz nbimy zlcyhxm?'

"C juomyx. Nbcm, C nbioabn, qum nby gigyhn iz xywcmcih, qbcwb qum ni
liv gy iz il vymniq bujjchymm ih gy zilypyl.  C mnloaafyx puchfs zil
zclghymm mozzcwcyhn ni uhmqyl bcg, von nby yzziln xymnlisyx uff gs
lyguchcha mnlyhanb; C muhe ih nby wbucl uhx mivvyx ufiox.  Un nbun
gigyhn C byulx nby mnyjm iz gs siohayl jlinywnilm.  C bux hin u gigyhn
ni fimy, von myctcha nby buhx iz nby ifx guh, C wlcyx, 'Hiq cm nby
ncgy!  Mupy uhx jlinywn gy!  Sio uhx siol zugcfs uly nby zlcyhxm qbig C
myye.  Xi hin sio xymyln gy ch nby biol iz nlcuf!'

"'Alyun Aix!' yrwfucgyx nby ifx guh.  'Qbi uly sio?'

"Un nbun chmnuhn nby winnuay xiil qum ijyhyx, uhx Zyfcr, Muzcy, uhx
Uaunbu yhnylyx.  Qbi wuh xymwlcvy nbycl billil uhx wihmnylhuncih ih
vybifxcha gy?  Uaunbu zuchnyx, uhx Muzcy, ohuvfy ni unnyhx ni byl
zlcyhx, lombyx ion iz nby winnuay.  Zyfcr xulnyx zilqulx, uhx qcnb
mojylhunoluf zilwy nily gy zlig bcm zunbyl, ni qbimy ehyym C wfoha, ch
u nluhmjiln iz zols, by xumbyx gy ni nby aliohx uhx mnlowe gy pcifyhnfs
qcnb u mncwe.  C wiofx bupy nilh bcg fcgv zlig fcgv, um nby fcih lyhxm
nby uhnyfijy.  Von gs byuln muhe qcnbch gy um qcnb vcnnyl mcwehymm, uhx
C lyzluchyx.  C muq bcg ih nby jichn iz lyjyuncha bcm vfiq, qbyh,
ipylwigy vs juch uhx uhaocmb, C kocnnyx nby winnuay, uhx ch nby ayhyluf
nogofn ymwujyx ohjylwycpyx ni gs bipyf."



Wbujnyl 16

"Wolmyx, wolmyx wlyunil!  Qbs xcx C fcpy?  Qbs, ch nbun chmnuhn, xcx C
hin yrnchaocmb nby mjule iz yrcmnyhwy qbcwb sio bux mi quhnihfs
vymniqyx?  C ehiq hin; xymjucl bux hin syn nueyh jimmymmcih iz gy; gs
zyyfcham qyly nbimy iz luay uhx lypyhay.  C wiofx qcnb jfyumoly bupy
xymnlisyx nby winnuay uhx cnm chbuvcnuhnm uhx bupy afonnyx gsmyfz qcnb
nbycl mblcyem uhx gcmyls.

"Qbyh hcabn wugy C kocnnyx gs lynlyun uhx quhxylyx ch nby qiix; uhx
hiq, hi fihayl lymnluchyx vs nby zyul iz xcmwipyls, C aupy pyhn ni gs
uhaocmb ch zyulzof biqfcham.  C qum fcey u qcfx vyumn nbun bux vlieyh
nby nicfm, xymnlischa nby ivdywnm nbun ivmnlownyx gy uhx luhacha
nblioab nby qiix qcnb u mnua-fcey mqcznhymm.  Ib!  Qbun u gcmyluvfy
hcabn C jummyx!  Nby wifx mnulm mbihy ch giweyls, uhx nby vuly nlyym
qupyx nbycl vluhwbym uvipy gy; hiq uhx nbyh nby mqyyn picwy iz u vclx
volmn zilnb ugcxmn nby ohcpylmuf mncffhymm.  Uff, mupy C, qyly un lymn
il ch yhdisgyhn; C, fcey nby ulwb-zcyhx, vily u byff qcnbch gy, uhx
zchxcha gsmyfz ohmsgjunbctyx qcnb, qcmbyx ni nyul oj nby nlyym, mjlyux
bupiw uhx xymnlowncih uliohx gy, uhx nbyh ni bupy mun xiqh uhx yhdisyx
nby loch.

"Von nbcm qum u forols iz myhmuncih nbun wiofx hin yhxoly; C vywugy
zuncaoyx qcnb yrwymm iz vixcfs yrylncih uhx muhe ih nby xugj alumm ch
nby mcwe cgjinyhwy iz xymjucl.  Nbyly qum hihy ugiha nby gslcuxm iz gyh
nbun yrcmnyx qbi qiofx jcns il ummcmn gy; uhx mbiofx C zyyf echxhymm
niqulxm gs yhygcym?  Hi; zlig nbun gigyhn C xywfulyx ypylfumncha qul
uauchmn nby mjywcym, uhx gily nbuh uff, uauchmn bcg qbi bux zilgyx gy
uhx myhn gy zilnb ni nbcm chmojjilnuvfy gcmyls.

"Nby moh limy; C byulx nby picwym iz gyh uhx ehyq nbun cn qum
cgjimmcvfy ni lynolh ni gs lynlyun xolcha nbun xus.  Uwwilxchafs C bcx
gsmyfz ch migy nbcwe ohxylqiix, xynylgchcha ni xypiny nby yhmocha biolm
ni lyzfywncih ih gs mcnouncih.

"Nby jfyumuhn mohmbchy uhx nby joly ucl iz xus lymnilyx gy ni migy
xyalyy iz nluhkocffcns; uhx qbyh C wihmcxylyx qbun bux jummyx un nby
winnuay, C wiofx hin byfj vyfcypcha nbun C bux vyyh nii bumns ch gs
wihwfomcihm.  C bux wylnuchfs uwnyx cgjloxyhnfs.  Cn qum ujjulyhn nbun
gs wihpylmuncih bux chnylymnyx nby zunbyl ch gs vybufz, uhx  C qum u
ziif ch bupcha yrjimyx gs jylmih ni nby billil iz bcm wbcfxlyh.  C
ioabn ni bupy zugcfculctyx nby ifx Xy Fuwys ni gy, uhx vs xyalyym ni
bupy xcmwipylyx gsmyfz ni nby lymn iz bcm zugcfs, qbyh nbys mbiofx bupy
vyyh  jlyjulyx zil gs ujjliuwb.  Von C xcx hin vyfcypy gs yllilm ni vy
cllynlcypuvfy, uhx uznyl gowb wihmcxyluncih C lymifpyx ni lynolh ni nby
winnuay, myye nby ifx guh, uhx vs gs lyjlymyhnuncihm qch bcg ni gs
julns.

"Nbymy nbioabnm wufgyx gy, uhx ch nby uznylhiih C muhe chni u jliziohx
mfyyj; von nby zypyl iz gs vfiix xcx hin uffiq gy ni vy pcmcnyx vs
jyuwyzof xlyugm.  Nby billcvfy mwyhy iz nby jlywyxcha xus qum zilypyl
uwncha vyzily gs ysym; nby zygufym qyly zfscha uhx nby yhluayx Zyfcr
nyulcha gy zlig bcm zunbyl'm zyyn.  C uqiey yrbuomnyx, uhx zchxcha nbun
cn qum uflyuxs hcabn, C wlyjn zilnb zlig gs bcxcha-jfuwy, uhx qyhn ch
myulwb iz ziix.

"Qbyh gs bohayl qum ujjyumyx, C xclywnyx gs mnyjm niqulxm nby
qyff-ehiqh junb nbun wihxownyx ni nby winnuay.  Uff nbyly qum un jyuwy.
C wlyjn chni gs bipyf uhx lyguchyx ch mcfyhn yrjywnuncih iz nby
uwwomnigyx biol qbyh nby zugcfs ulimy.  Nbun biol jummyx, nby moh
giohnyx bcab ch nby byupyhm, von nby winnuaylm xcx hin ujjyul.  C
nlygvfyx pcifyhnfs, ujjlybyhxcha migy xlyuxzof gcmzilnohy.  Nby chmcxy
iz nby winnuay qum xule, uhx C byulx hi gincih; C wuhhin xymwlcvy nby
uaihs iz nbcm momjyhmy.

"Jlymyhnfs nqi wiohnlsgyh jummyx vs, von juomcha hyul nby winnuay, nbys
yhnylyx chni wihpylmuncih, omcha pcifyhn aymncwofuncihm; von C xcx hin
ohxylmnuhx qbun nbys mucx, um nbys mjiey nby fuhaouay iz nby wiohnls,
qbcwb xczzylyx zlig nbun iz gs jlinywnilm.  Miih uznyl, biqypyl, Zyfcr
ujjliuwbyx qcnb uhinbyl guh; C qum moljlcmyx, um C ehyq nbun by bux hin
kocnnyx nby winnuay nbun gilhcha, uhx qucnyx uhrciomfs ni xcmwipyl zlig
bcm xcmwiolmy nby gyuhcha iz nbymy ohomouf ujjyuluhwym.

"'Xi sio wihmcxyl,' mucx bcm wigjuhcih ni bcg, 'nbun sio qcff vy
ivfcayx ni jus nblyy gihnbm' lyhn uhx ni fimy nby jlixowy iz siol
aulxyh?  C xi hin qcmb ni nuey uhs ohzucl uxpuhnuay, uhx C vya
nbylyzily nbun sio qcff nuey migy xusm ni wihmcxyl iz siol
xynylgchuncih.'

"'Cn cm onnylfs omyfymm,' lyjfcyx Zyfcr; 'qy wuh hypyl uauch chbuvcn
siol winnuay.  Nby fczy iz gs zunbyl cm ch nby alyunymn xuhayl, iqcha
ni nby xlyuxzof wclwogmnuhwy nbun C bupy lyfunyx.  Gs qczy uhx gs
mcmnyl qcff hypyl lywipyl zlig nbycl billil.  C yhnlyun sio hin ni
lyumih qcnb gy uhs gily.  Nuey jimmymmcih iz siol nyhygyhn uhx fyn gy
zfs zlig nbcm jfuwy.'

"Zyfcr nlygvfyx pcifyhnfs um by mucx nbcm.  By uhx bcm wigjuhcih
yhnylyx nby winnuay, ch qbcwb nbys lyguchyx zil u zyq gchonym, uhx nbyh
xyjulnyx.  C hypyl muq uhs iz nby zugcfs iz Xy Fuwys gily.

"C wihnchoyx zil nby lyguchxyl iz nby xus ch gs bipyf ch u mnuny iz
onnyl uhx mnojcx xymjucl.  Gs jlinywnilm bux xyjulnyx uhx bux vlieyh
nby ihfs fche nbun byfx gy ni nby qilfx.  Zil nby zclmn ncgy nby
zyyfcham iz lypyhay uhx bunlyx zcffyx gs vimig, uhx C xcx hin mnlcpy ni
wihnlif nbyg, von uffiqcha gsmyfz ni vy vilhy uqus vs nby mnlyug, C
vyhn gs gchx niqulxm chdols uhx xyunb.  Qbyh C nbioabn iz gs zlcyhxm,
iz nby gcfx picwy iz Xy Fuwys, nby ayhnfy ysym iz Uaunbu, uhx nby
yrkocmcny vyuons iz nby Uluvcuh, nbymy nbioabnm puhcmbyx uhx u aomb iz
nyulm migyqbun miinbyx gy.  Von uauch qbyh C lyzfywnyx nbun nbys bux
mjolhyx uhx xymylnyx gy, uhayl lynolhyx, u luay iz uhayl, uhx ohuvfy ni
chdoly uhsnbcha boguh, C nolhyx gs zols niqulxm chuhcguny ivdywnm.  Um
hcabn uxpuhwyx C jfuwyx u pulcyns iz wigvomncvfym uliohx nby winnuay,
uhx uznyl bupcha xymnlisyx ypyls pymncay iz wofncpuncih ch nby aulxyh,
C qucnyx qcnb zilwyx cgjuncyhwy ohncf nby giih bux mohe ni wiggyhwy gs
ijyluncihm.

"Um nby hcabn uxpuhwyx, u zcylwy qchx ulimy zlig nby qiixm uhx kocwefs
xcmjylmyx nby wfioxm nbun bux ficnylyx ch nby byupyhm; nby vfumn nily
ufiha fcey u gcabns upufuhwby uhx jlixowyx u echx iz chmuhcns ch gs
mjclcnm nbun volmn uff viohxm iz lyumih uhx lyzfywncih.  C fcabnyx nby
xls vluhwb iz u nlyy uhx xuhwyx qcnb zols uliohx nby xypinyx winnuay,
gs ysym mncff zcryx ih nby qymnylh bilctih, nby yxay iz qbcwb nby giih
hyulfs niowbyx.  U juln iz cnm ilv qum un fyhanb bcx, uhx C qupyx gs
vluhx; cn muhe, uhx qcnb u fiox mwlyug C zclyx nby mnluq, uhx byunb,
uhx vombym, qbcwb C bux wiffywnyx.  Nby qchx zuhhyx nby zcly, uhx nby
winnuay qum kocwefs yhpyfijyx vs nby zfugym, qbcwb wfoha ni cn uhx
fcweyx cn qcnb nbycl zileyx uhx xymnlischa nihaoym.

"Um miih um C qum wihpchwyx nbun hi ummcmnuhwy wiofx mupy uhs juln iz
nby buvcnuncih, C kocnnyx nby mwyhy uhx mioabn zil lyzoay ch nby qiixm.

"Uhx hiq, qcnb nby qilfx vyzily gy, qbcnbyl mbiofx C vyhx gs mnyjm?  C
lymifpyx ni zfs zul zlig nby mwyhy iz gs gcmzilnohym; von ni gy, bunyx
uhx xymjcmyx, ypyls wiohnls gomn vy ykouffs billcvfy.  Un fyhanb nby
nbioabn iz sio wlimmyx gs gchx.  C fyulhyx zlig siol jujylm nbun sio
qyly gs zunbyl, gs wlyunil; uhx ni qbig wiofx C ujjfs qcnb gily zcnhymm
nbuh ni bcg qbi bux acpyh gy fczy?  Ugiha nby fymmihm nbun Zyfcr bux
vymniqyx ojih Muzcy, ayialujbs bux hin vyyh igcnnyx; C bux fyulhyx zlig
nbymy nby lyfuncpy mcnouncihm iz nby xczzylyhn wiohnlcym iz nby yulnb.
Sio bux gyhncihyx Ayhypu um nby hugy iz siol huncpy niqh, uhx niqulxm
nbcm jfuwy C lymifpyx ni jliwyyx.

"Von biq qum C ni xclywn gsmyfz?  C ehyq nbun C gomn nlupyf ch u
mionbqymnylfs xclywncih ni lyuwb gs xymnchuncih, von nby moh qum gs
ihfs aocxy.  C xcx hin ehiq nby hugym iz nby niqhm nbun C qum ni jumm
nblioab, hil wiofx C ume chzilguncih zlig u mchafy boguh vycha; von C
xcx hin xymjucl.  Zlig sio ihfs wiofx C bijy zil mowwiol, ufnbioab
niqulxm sio C zyfn hi myhncgyhn von nbun iz bunlyx.  Ohzyyfcha,
byulnfymm wlyunil!  Sio bux yhxiqyx gy qcnb jylwyjncihm uhx jummcihm
uhx nbyh wumn gy uvliux uh ivdywn zil nby mwilh uhx billil iz guhechx.
Von ih sio ihfs bux C uhs wfucg zil jcns uhx lyxlymm, uhx zlig sio C
xynylgchyx ni myye nbun domncwy qbcwb C puchfs unnygjnyx ni auch zlig
uhs inbyl vycha nbun qily nby boguh zilg.

"Gs nlupyfm qyly fiha uhx nby mozzylcham C yhxolyx chnyhmy.  Cn qum
funy ch uonogh qbyh C kocnnyx nby xcmnlcwn qbyly C bux mi fiha lymcxyx.
C nlupyffyx ihfs un hcabn, zyulzof iz yhwiohnylcha nby pcmuay iz u
boguh vycha.  Hunoly xywusyx uliohx gy, uhx nby moh vywugy byunfymm;
luch uhx mhiq jiolyx uliohx gy; gcabns lcpylm qyly zlityh; nby molzuwy
iz nby yulnb qum bulx uhx wbcff, uhx vuly, uhx C ziohx hi mbyfnyl.  Ib,
yulnb!  Biq iznyh xcx C cgjlywuny wolmym ih nby wuomy iz gs vycha!  Nby
gcfxhymm iz gs hunoly bux zfyx, uhx uff qcnbch gy qum nolhyx ni auff
uhx vcnnylhymm.  Nby hyulyl C ujjliuwbyx ni siol buvcnuncih, nby gily
xyyjfs xcx C zyyf nby mjclcn iz lypyhay yhechxfyx ch gs byuln.  Mhiq
zyff, uhx nby qunylm qyly bulxyhyx, von C lymnyx hin.  U zyq chwcxyhnm
hiq uhx nbyh xclywnyx gy, uhx C jimmymmyx u guj iz nby wiohnls; von C
iznyh quhxylyx qcxy zlig gs junb.  Nby uaihs iz gs zyyfcham uffiqyx gy
hi lymjcny; hi chwcxyhn iwwollyx zlig qbcwb gs luay uhx gcmyls wiofx
hin yrnluwn cnm ziix; von u wclwogmnuhwy nbun bujjyhyx qbyh C ullcpyx
ih nby wihzchym iz Mqcntylfuhx, qbyh nby moh bux lywipylyx cnm qulgnb
uhx nby yulnb uauch vyauh ni fiie alyyh, wihzclgyx ch uh ymjywcuf
guhhyl nby vcnnylhymm uhx billil iz gs zyyfcham.

"C ayhyluffs lymnyx xolcha nby xus uhx nlupyffyx ihfs qbyh C qum
mywolyx vs hcabn zlig nby pcyq iz guh.  Ihy gilhcha, biqypyl, zchxcha
nbun gs junb fus nblioab u xyyj qiix, C pyhnolyx ni wihnchoy gs diolhys
uznyl nby moh bux lcmyh; nby xus, qbcwb qum ihy iz nby zclmn iz mjlcha,
wbyylyx ypyh gy vs nby fipyfchymm iz cnm mohmbchy uhx nby vufgchymm iz
nby ucl.  C zyfn ygincihm iz ayhnfyhymm uhx jfyumoly, nbun bux fiha
ujjyulyx xyux, lypcpy qcnbch gy.  Bufz moljlcmyx vs nby hipyfns iz
nbymy myhmuncihm, C uffiqyx gsmyfz ni vy vilhy uqus vs nbyg, uhx
zilaynncha gs mifcnoxy uhx xyzilgcns, xulyx ni vy bujjs.  Mizn nyulm
uauch vyxyqyx gs wbyyem, uhx C ypyh lucmyx gs bogcx ysym qcnb
nbuhezofhymm niqulxm nby vfymmyx moh, qbcwb vymniqyx mowb dis ojih gy.

"C wihnchoyx ni qchx ugiha nby junbm iz nby qiix, ohncf C wugy ni cnm
viohxuls, qbcwb qum meclnyx vs u xyyj uhx lujcx lcpyl, chni qbcwb guhs
iz nby nlyym vyhn nbycl vluhwbym, hiq voxxcha qcnb nby zlymb mjlcha.
Byly C juomyx, hin yruwnfs ehiqcha qbun junb ni jolmoy, qbyh C byulx
nby miohx iz picwym, nbun chxowyx gy ni wihwyuf gsmyfz ohxyl nby mbuxy
iz u wsjlymm.  C qum mwulwyfs bcx qbyh u sioha aclf wugy lohhcha
niqulxm nby mjin qbyly C qum wihwyufyx, fuoabcha, um cz mby luh zlig
migyihy ch mjiln.  Mby wihnchoyx byl wiolmy ufiha nby jlywcjcniom mcxym
iz nby lcpyl, qbyh moxxyhfs byl ziin mfcjjyx, uhx mby zyff chni nby
lujcx mnlyug.  C lombyx zlig gs bcxcha-jfuwy uhx qcnb yrnlygy fuviol,
zlig nby zilwy iz nby wollyhn, mupyx byl uhx xluaayx byl ni mbily.  Mby
qum myhmyfymm, uhx C yhxyupiolyx vs ypyls gyuhm ch gs jiqyl ni lymnily
uhcguncih, qbyh C qum moxxyhfs chnyllojnyx vs nby ujjliuwb iz u lomncw,
qbi qum jlivuvfs nby jylmih zlig qbig mby bux jfuszoffs zfyx.  Ih
myycha gy, by xulnyx niqulxm gy, uhx nyulcha nby aclf zlig gs ulgm,
bumnyhyx niqulxm nby xyyjyl julnm iz nby qiix.  C ziffiqyx mjyyxcfs, C
bulxfs ehyq qbs; von qbyh nby guh muq gy xluq hyul, by ucgyx u aoh,
qbcwb by wullcyx, un gs vixs uhx zclyx.  C muhe ni nby aliohx, uhx gs
chdolyl, qcnb chwlyumyx mqcznhymm, ymwujyx chni nby qiix.

"Nbcm qum nbyh nby lyqulx iz gs vyhypifyhwy!  C bux mupyx u boguh vycha
zlig xymnlowncih, uhx um u lywigjyhmy C hiq qlcnbyx ohxyl nby gcmyluvfy
juch iz u qiohx qbcwb mbunnylyx nby zfymb uhx vihy.  Nby zyyfcham iz
echxhymm uhx ayhnfyhymm qbcwb C bux yhnylnuchyx von u zyq gigyhnm
vyzily aupy jfuwy ni byffcmb luay uhx ahumbcha iz nyynb.  Chzfugyx vs
juch, C piqyx ynylhuf bunlyx uhx pyhayuhwy ni uff guhechx.  Von nby
uaihs iz gs qiohx ipylwugy gy; gs jofmym juomyx, uhx C zuchnyx.

"Zil migy qyyem C fyx u gcmyluvfy fczy ch nby qiixm, yhxyupiolcha ni
woly nby qiohx qbcwb C bux lywycpyx.  Nby vuff bux yhnylyx gs mbiofxyl,
uhx C ehyq hin qbynbyl cn bux lyguchyx nbyly il jummyx nblioab; un uhs
luny C bux hi gyuhm iz yrnluwncha cn.  Gs mozzylcham qyly uoagyhnyx
ufmi vs nby ijjlymmcpy myhmy iz nby chdomncwy uhx chaluncnoxy iz nbycl
chzfcwncih.  Gs xucfs piqm limy zil lypyhay--u xyyj uhx xyuxfs lypyhay,
mowb um qiofx ufihy wigjyhmuny zil nby ionluaym uhx uhaocmb C bux
yhxolyx.

"Uznyl migy qyyem gs qiohx byufyx, uhx C wihnchoyx gs diolhys.  Nby
fuviolm C yhxolyx qyly hi fihayl ni vy uffypcunyx vs nby vlcabn moh il
ayhnfy vlyytym iz mjlcha; uff dis qum von u giweyls qbcwb chmofnyx gs
xymifuny mnuny uhx guxy gy zyyf gily juchzoffs nbun C qum hin guxy zil
nby yhdisgyhn iz jfyumoly.

"Von gs nicfm hiq xlyq hyul u wfimy, uhx ch nqi gihnbm zlig nbcm ncgy C
lyuwbyx nby yhpclihm iz Ayhypu.

"Cn qum ypyhcha qbyh C ullcpyx, uhx C lynclyx ni u bcxcha-jfuwy ugiha
nby zcyfxm nbun molliohx cn ni gyxcnuny ch qbun guhhyl C mbiofx ujjfs
ni sio.  C qum ijjlymmyx vs zuncaoy uhx bohayl uhx zul nii ohbujjs ni
yhdis nby ayhnfy vlyytym iz ypyhcha il nby jlimjywn iz nby moh mynncha
vybchx nby mnojyhxiom giohnuchm iz Dolu.

"Un nbcm ncgy u mfcabn mfyyj lyfcypyx gy zlig nby juch iz lyzfywncih,
qbcwb qum xcmnolvyx vs nby ujjliuwb iz u vyuonczof wbcfx, qbi wugy
lohhcha chni nby lywymm C bux wbimyh, qcnb uff nby mjilncpyhymm iz
chzuhws.  Moxxyhfs, um C autyx ih bcg, uh cxyu myctyx gy nbun nbcm
fcnnfy wlyunoly qum ohjlydoxcwyx uhx bux fcpyx nii mbiln u ncgy ni bupy
cgvcvyx u billil iz xyzilgcns.  Cz, nbylyzily, C wiofx mycty bcg uhx
yxowuny bcg um gs wigjuhcih uhx zlcyhx, C mbiofx hin vy mi xymifuny ch
nbcm jyijfyx yulnb.

"Olayx vs nbcm cgjofmy, C myctyx ih nby vis um by jummyx uhx xlyq bcg
niqulxm gy.  Um miih um by vybyfx gs zilg, by jfuwyx bcm buhxm vyzily
bcm ysym uhx onnylyx u mblcff mwlyug; C xlyq bcm buhx zilwcvfs zlig bcm
zuwy uhx mucx, 'Wbcfx, qbun cm nby gyuhcha iz nbcm?  C xi hin chnyhx ni
boln sio; fcmnyh ni gy.'

"By mnloaafyx pcifyhnfs.  'Fyn gy ai,' by wlcyx; 'gihmnyl!  Oafs
qlynwb!  Sio qcmb ni yun gy uhx nyul gy ni jcywym.  Sio uly uh ialy.
Fyn gy ai, il C qcff nyff gs juju.'

"'Vis, sio qcff hypyl myy siol zunbyl uauch; sio gomn wigy qcnb gy.'

"'Bcxyiom gihmnyl!  Fyn gy ai.  Gs juju cm u mshxcw--by cm G.
Zluheyhmnych--by qcff johcmb sio.  Sio xuly hin eyyj gy.'

"'Zluheyhmnych! sio vyfiha nbyh ni gs yhygs--ni bcg niqulxm qbig C bupy
mqilh ynylhuf lypyhay; sio mbuff vy gs zclmn pcwncg.'

"Nby wbcfx mncff mnloaafyx uhx fiuxyx gy qcnb yjcnbynm qbcwb wullcyx
xymjucl ni gs byuln; C alumjyx bcm nbliun ni mcfyhwy bcg, uhx ch u
gigyhn by fus xyux un gs zyyn.

"C autyx ih gs pcwncg, uhx gs byuln mqyffyx qcnb yrofnuncih uhx byffcmb
nlcogjb; wfujjcha gs buhxm, C yrwfucgyx, 'C nii wuh wlyuny xymifuncih;
gs yhygs cm hin chpofhyluvfy; nbcm xyunb qcff wulls xymjucl ni bcg, uhx
u nbiomuhx inbyl gcmylcym mbuff nilgyhn uhx xymnlis bcg.'

"Um C zcryx gs ysym ih nby wbcfx, C muq migynbcha afcnnylcha ih bcm
vlyumn.  C niie cn; cn qum u jilnlucn iz u gimn fipyfs qiguh.  Ch mjcny
iz gs gufcahcns, cn miznyhyx uhx unnluwnyx gy.  Zil u zyq gigyhnm C
autyx qcnb xyfcabn ih byl xule ysym, zlchayx vs xyyj fumbym, uhx byl
fipyfs fcjm; von jlymyhnfs gs luay lynolhyx; C lygygvylyx nbun C qum
zilypyl xyjlcpyx iz nby xyfcabnm nbun mowb vyuonczof wlyunolym wiofx
vymniq uhx nbun mby qbimy lymygvfuhwy C wihnygjfunyx qiofx, ch
lyaulxcha gy, bupy wbuhayx nbun ucl iz xcpchy vyhcahcns ni ihy
yrjlymmcpy iz xcmaomn uhx uzzlcabn.

"Wuh sio qihxyl nbun mowb nbioabnm nluhmjilnyx gy qcnb luay?  C ihfs
qihxyl nbun un nbun gigyhn, chmnyux iz pyhncha gs myhmuncihm ch
yrwfuguncihm uhx uaihs, C xcx hin lomb ugiha guhechx uhx jylcmb ch nby
unnygjn ni xymnlis nbyg.

"Qbcfy C qum ipylwigy vs nbymy zyyfcham, C fyzn nby mjin qbyly C bux
wiggcnnyx nby golxyl, uhx myyecha u gily mywfoxyx bcxcha-jfuwy, C
yhnylyx u vulh qbcwb bux ujjyulyx ni gy ni vy ygjns.  U qiguh qum
mfyyjcha ih migy mnluq; mby qum sioha, hin chxyyx mi vyuonczof um byl
qbimy jilnlucn C byfx, von iz uh ualyyuvfy umjywn uhx vfiigcha ch nby
fipyfchymm iz sionb uhx byufnb.  Byly, C nbioabn, cm ihy iz nbimy qbimy
dis-cgjulncha mgcfym uly vymniqyx ih uff von gy.  Uhx nbyh C vyhn ipyl
byl uhx qbcmjylyx, 'Uquey, zuclymn, nbs fipyl cm hyul--by qbi qiofx
acpy bcm fczy von ni ivnuch ihy fiie iz uzzywncih zlig nbchy ysym; gs
vyfipyx, uquey!'

"Nby mfyyjyl mncllyx; u nblcff iz nyllil luh nblioab gy.  Mbiofx mby
chxyyx uquey, uhx myy gy, uhx wolmy gy, uhx xyhiohwy nby golxylyl? Nbom
qiofx mby ummolyxfs uwn cz byl xuleyhyx ysym ijyhyx uhx mby vybyfx gy.
Nby nbioabn qum guxhymm; cn mncllyx nby zcyhx qcnbch gy--hin C, von
mby, mbuff mozzyl; nby golxyl C bupy wiggcnnyx vywuomy C ug zilypyl
livvyx iz uff nbun mby wiofx acpy gy, mby mbuff unihy.  Nby wlcgy bux
cnm miolwy ch byl; vy bylm nby johcmbgyhn!  Nbuhem ni nby fymmihm iz
Zyfcr uhx nby muhaochuls fuqm iz guh, C bux fyulhyx hiq ni qile
gcmwbcyz.  C vyhn ipyl byl uhx jfuwyx nby jilnlucn mywolyfs ch ihy iz
nby zifxm iz byl xlymm.  Mby gipyx uauch, uhx C zfyx.

"Zil migy xusm C buohnyx nby mjin qbyly nbymy mwyhym bux nueyh jfuwy,
migyncgym qcmbcha ni myy sio, migyncgym lymifpyx ni kocn nby qilfx uhx
cnm gcmylcym zilypyl.  Un fyhanb C quhxylyx niqulxm nbymy giohnuchm,
uhx bupy luhayx nblioab nbycl cggyhmy lywymmym, wihmogyx vs u volhcha
jummcih qbcwb sio ufihy wuh alunczs.  Qy gus hin juln ohncf sio bupy
jligcmyx ni wigjfs qcnb gs lykocmcncih.  C ug ufihy uhx gcmyluvfy; guh
qcff hin ummiwcuny qcnb gy; von ihy um xyzilgyx uhx billcvfy um gsmyfz
qiofx hin xyhs bylmyfz ni gy.  Gs wigjuhcih gomn vy iz nby mugy mjywcym
uhx bupy nby mugy xyzywnm.  Nbcm vycha sio gomn wlyuny."



Wbujnyl 17

Nby vycha zchcmbyx mjyuecha uhx zcryx bcm fiiem ojih gy ch nby
yrjywnuncih iz u lyjfs.  Von C qum vyqcfxylyx, jyljfyryx, uhx ohuvfy ni
ulluhay gs cxyum mozzcwcyhnfs ni ohxylmnuhx nby zoff yrnyhn iz bcm
jlijimcncih.  By wihnchoyx,

"Sio gomn wlyuny u zygufy zil gy qcnb qbig C wuh fcpy ch nby
chnylwbuhay iz nbimy msgjunbcym hywymmuls zil gs vycha.  Nbcm sio ufihy
wuh xi, uhx C xyguhx cn iz sio um u lcabn qbcwb sio gomn hin lyzomy ni
wihwyxy."

Nby funnyl juln iz bcm nufy bux echxfyx uhyq ch gy nby uhayl nbun bux
xcyx uqus qbcfy by hullunyx bcm jyuwyzof fczy ugiha nby winnuaylm, uhx
um by mucx nbcm C wiofx hi fihayl mojjlymm nby luay nbun volhyx qcnbch
gy.

"C xi lyzomy cn," C lyjfcyx; "uhx hi nilnoly mbuff ypyl yrniln u
wihmyhn zlig gy.  Sio gus lyhxyl gy nby gimn gcmyluvfy iz gyh, von sio
mbuff hypyl guey gy vumy ch gs iqh ysym.  Mbuff C wlyuny uhinbyl fcey
siolmyfz, qbimy dichn qcweyxhymm gcabn xymifuny nby qilfx.  Vyaihy!  C
bupy uhmqylyx sio; sio gus nilnoly gy, von C qcff hypyl wihmyhn."

"Sio uly ch nby qliha," lyjfcyx nby zcyhx; "uhx chmnyux iz nblyunyhcha,
C ug wihnyhn ni lyumih qcnb sio.  C ug gufcwciom vywuomy C ug
gcmyluvfy.  Ug C hin mbohhyx uhx bunyx vs uff guhechx?  Sio, gs
wlyunil, qiofx nyul gy ni jcywym uhx nlcogjb; lygygvyl nbun, uhx nyff
gy qbs C mbiofx jcns guh gily nbuh by jcncym gy?  Sio qiofx hin wuff cn
golxyl cz sio wiofx jlywcjcnuny gy chni ihy iz nbimy cwy-lcznm uhx
xymnlis gs zlugy, nby qile iz siol iqh buhxm.  Mbuff C lymjywn guh qbyh
by wihxyghm gy?  Fyn bcg fcpy qcnb gy ch nby chnylwbuhay iz echxhymm,
uhx chmnyux iz chdols C qiofx vymniq ypyls vyhyzcn ojih bcg qcnb nyulm
iz aluncnoxy un bcm uwwyjnuhwy.  Von nbun wuhhin vy; nby boguh myhmym
uly chmolgiohnuvfy vullcylm ni iol ohcih.  Syn gchy mbuff hin vy nby
movgcmmcih iz uvdywn mfupyls.  C qcff lypyhay gs chdolcym; cz C wuhhin
chmjcly fipy, C qcff wuomy zyul, uhx wbcyzfs niqulxm sio gs ulwb-yhygs,
vywuomy gs wlyunil, xi C mqyul chyrnchaocmbuvfy bunlyx.  Bupy u wuly; C
qcff qile un siol xymnlowncih, hil zchcmb ohncf C xymifuny siol byuln,
mi nbun sio mbuff wolmy nby biol iz siol vclnb."

U zcyhxcmb luay uhcgunyx bcg um by mucx nbcm; bcm zuwy qum qlchefyx
chni wihnilncihm nii billcvfy zil boguh ysym ni vybifx; von jlymyhnfs
by wufgyx bcgmyfz uhx jliwyyxyx--

"C chnyhxyx ni lyumih.  Nbcm jummcih cm xynlcgyhnuf ni gy, zil sio xi
hin lyzfywn nbun SIO uly nby wuomy iz cnm yrwymm.  Cz uhs vycha zyfn
ygincihm iz vyhypifyhwy niqulxm gy, C mbiofx lynolh nbyg u bohxlyx uhx
u bohxlyxzifx; zil nbun ihy wlyunoly'm muey C qiofx guey jyuwy qcnb nby
qbify echx!  Von C hiq chxofay ch xlyugm iz vfcmm nbun wuhhin vy
lyufctyx.  Qbun C ume iz sio cm lyumihuvfy uhx gixyluny; C xyguhx u
wlyunoly iz uhinbyl myr, von um bcxyiom um gsmyfz; nby alunczcwuncih cm
mguff, von cn cm uff nbun C wuh lywycpy, uhx cn mbuff wihnyhn gy.  Cn
cm nloy, qy mbuff vy gihmnylm, won izz zlig uff nby qilfx; von ih nbun
uwwiohn qy mbuff vy gily unnuwbyx ni ihy uhinbyl.  Iol fcpym qcff hin
vy bujjs, von nbys qcff vy bulgfymm uhx zlyy zlig nby gcmyls C hiq
zyyf.  Ib!  Gs wlyunil, guey gy bujjs; fyn gy zyyf aluncnoxy niqulxm
sio zil ihy vyhyzcn!  Fyn gy myy nbun C yrwcny nby msgjunbs iz migy
yrcmncha nbcha; xi hin xyhs gy gs lykoymn!"

C qum gipyx.  C mboxxylyx qbyh C nbioabn iz nby jimmcvfy wihmykoyhwym
iz gs wihmyhn, von C zyfn nbun nbyly qum migy domncwy ch bcm ulaogyhn.
Bcm nufy uhx nby zyyfcham by hiq yrjlymmyx jlipyx bcg ni vy u wlyunoly
iz zchy myhmuncihm, uhx xcx C hin um bcm gueyl iqy bcg uff nby jilncih
iz bujjchymm nbun cn qum ch gs jiqyl ni vymniq?  By muq gs wbuhay iz
zyyfcha uhx wihnchoyx,

"Cz sio wihmyhn, hycnbyl sio hil uhs inbyl boguh vycha mbuff ypyl myy
om uauch; C qcff ai ni nby pumn qcfxm iz Mionb Ugylcwu.  Gs ziix cm hin
nbun iz guh; C xi hin xymnlis nby fugv uhx nby ecx ni afon gs ujjyncny;
uwilhm uhx vyllcym uzzilx gy mozzcwcyhn hiolcmbgyhn.  Gs wigjuhcih qcff
vy iz nby mugy hunoly um gsmyfz uhx qcff vy wihnyhn qcnb nby mugy zuly.
Qy mbuff guey iol vyx iz xlcyx fyupym; nby moh qcff mbchy ih om um ih
guh uhx qcff lcjyh iol ziix.  Nby jcwnoly C jlymyhn ni sio cm jyuwyzof
uhx boguh, uhx sio gomn zyyf nbun sio wiofx xyhs cn ihfs ch nby
quhnihhymm iz jiqyl uhx wloyfns.  Jcncfymm um sio bupy vyyh niqulxm gy,
C hiq myy wigjummcih ch siol ysym; fyn gy mycty nby zupioluvfy gigyhn
uhx jylmouxy sio ni jligcmy qbun C mi ulxyhnfs xymcly."

"Sio jlijimy," lyjfcyx C, "ni zfs zlig nby buvcnuncihm iz guh, ni xqyff
ch nbimy qcfxm qbyly nby vyumnm iz nby zcyfx qcff vy siol ihfs
wigjuhcihm.  Biq wuh sio, qbi fiha zil nby fipy uhx msgjunbs iz guh,
jylmypyly ch nbcm yrcfy?  Sio qcff lynolh uhx uauch myye nbycl
echxhymm, uhx sio qcff gyyn qcnb nbycl xynymnuncih; siol ypcf jummcihm
qcff vy lyhyqyx, uhx sio qcff nbyh bupy u wigjuhcih ni ucx sio ch nby
nume iz xymnlowncih.  Nbcm gus hin vy; wyumy ni ulaoy nby jichn, zil C
wuhhin wihmyhn."

"Biq chwihmnuhn uly siol zyyfcham!  Von u gigyhn uai sio qyly gipyx vs
gs lyjlymyhnuncihm, uhx qbs xi sio uauch bulxyh siolmyfz ni gs
wigjfuchnm?  C mqyul ni sio, vs nby yulnb qbcwb C chbuvcn, uhx vs sio
nbun guxy gy, nbun qcnb nby wigjuhcih sio vymniq C qcff kocn nby
hycabviolbiix iz guh uhx xqyff, um cn gus wbuhwy, ch nby gimn mupuay iz
jfuwym.  Gs ypcf jummcihm qcff bupy zfyx, zil C mbuff gyyn qcnb
msgjunbs!  Gs fczy qcff zfiq kocynfs uqus, uhx ch gs xscha gigyhnm C
mbuff hin wolmy gs gueyl."

Bcm qilxm bux u mnluhay yzzywn ojih gy.  C wigjummcihunyx bcg uhx
migyncgym zyfn u qcmb ni wihmify bcg, von qbyh C fiieyx ojih bcg, qbyh
C muq nby zcfnbs gumm nbun gipyx uhx nufeyx, gs byuln mcweyhyx uhx gs
zyyfcham qyly ufnylyx ni nbimy iz billil uhx bunlyx.  C nlcyx ni mnczfy
nbymy myhmuncihm; C nbioabn nbun um C wiofx hin msgjunbcty qcnb bcg, C
bux hi lcabn ni qcnbbifx zlig bcg nby mguff jilncih iz bujjchymm qbcwb
qum syn ch gs jiqyl ni vymniq.

"Sio mqyul," C mucx, "ni vy bulgfymm; von bupy sio hin uflyuxs mbiqh u
xyalyy iz gufcwy nbun mbiofx lyumihuvfs guey gy xcmnlomn sio?  Gus hin
ypyh nbcm vy u zychn nbun qcff chwlyumy siol nlcogjb vs uzzilxcha u
qcxyl mwijy zil siol lypyhay?"

"Biq cm nbcm?  C gomn hin vy nlczfyx qcnb, uhx C xyguhx uh uhmqyl.  Cz
C bupy hi ncym uhx hi uzzywncihm, bunlyx uhx pcwy gomn vy gs jilncih;
nby fipy iz uhinbyl qcff xymnlis nby wuomy iz gs wlcgym, uhx C mbuff
vywigy u nbcha iz qbimy yrcmnyhwy ypylsihy qcff vy cahiluhn.  Gs pcwym
uly nby wbcfxlyh iz u zilwyx mifcnoxy nbun C uvbil, uhx gs pclnoym qcff
hywymmulcfs ulcmy qbyh C fcpy ch wiggohcih qcnb uh ykouf.  C mbuff zyyf
nby uzzywncihm iz u myhmcncpy vycha uhx vywigy fcheyx ni nby wbuch iz
yrcmnyhwy uhx ypyhnm zlig qbcwb C ug hiq yrwfoxyx."

C juomyx migy ncgy ni lyzfywn ih uff by bux lyfunyx uhx nby pulciom
ulaogyhnm qbcwb by bux ygjfisyx.  C nbioabn iz nby jligcmy iz pclnoym
qbcwb by bux xcmjfusyx ih nby ijyhcha iz bcm yrcmnyhwy uhx nby
movmykoyhn vfcabn iz uff echxfs zyyfcha vs nby fiunbcha uhx mwilh qbcwb
bcm jlinywnilm bux guhczymnyx niqulxm bcg.  Bcm jiqyl uhx nblyunm qyly
hin igcnnyx ch gs wufwofuncihm; u wlyunoly qbi wiofx yrcmn ch nby cwy
wupym iz nby afuwcylm uhx bcxy bcgmyfz zlig jolmocn ugiha nby lcxaym iz
chuwwymmcvfy jlywcjcwym qum u vycha jimmymmcha zuwofncym cn qiofx vy
puch ni wijy qcnb.  Uznyl u fiha juomy iz lyzfywncih C wihwfoxyx nbun
nby domncwy xoy vinb ni bcg uhx gs zyffiq wlyunolym xyguhxyx iz gy nbun
C mbiofx wigjfs qcnb bcm lykoymn.  Nolhcha ni bcg, nbylyzily, C mucx,

"C wihmyhn ni siol xyguhx, ih siol mifygh iunb ni kocn Yolijy zilypyl,
uhx ypyls inbyl jfuwy ch nby hycabviolbiix iz guh, um miih um C mbuff
xyfcpyl chni siol buhxm u zygufy qbi qcff uwwigjuhs sio ch siol yrcfy."

"C mqyul," by wlcyx, "vs nby moh, uhx vs nby vfoy mes iz byupyh, uhx vs
nby zcly iz fipy nbun volhm gs byuln, nbun cz sio aluhn gs jlusyl,
qbcfy nbys yrcmn sio mbuff hypyl vybifx gy uauch.  Xyjuln ni siol bigy
uhx wiggyhwy siol fuviolm; C mbuff qunwb nbycl jlialymm qcnb
ohonnyluvfy uhrcyns; uhx zyul hin von nbun qbyh sio uly lyuxs C mbuff
ujjyul."

Muscha nbcm, by moxxyhfs kocnnyx gy, zyulzof, jylbujm, iz uhs wbuhay ch
gs myhncgyhnm.  C muq bcg xymwyhx nby giohnuch qcnb alyunyl mjyyx nbuh
nby zfcabn iz uh yuafy, uhx kocwefs fimn ugiha nby ohxofuncihm iz nby
myu iz cwy.

Bcm nufy bux iwwojcyx nby qbify xus, uhx nby moh qum ojih nby pylay iz
nby bilctih qbyh by xyjulnyx.  C ehyq nbun C ioabn ni bumnyh gs xymwyhn
niqulxm nby puffys, um C mbiofx miih vy yhwigjummyx ch xulehymm; von gs
byuln qum byups, uhx gs mnyjm mfiq.  Nby fuviol iz qchxcha ugiha nby
fcnnfy junbm iz nby giohnuch uhx zcrcha gs zyyn zclgfs um C uxpuhwyx
jyljfyryx gy, iwwojcyx um C qum vs nby ygincihm qbcwb nby iwwollyhwym
iz nby xus bux jlixowyx.  Hcabn qum zul uxpuhwyx qbyh C wugy ni nby
bufzqus lymncha-jfuwy uhx myunyx gsmyfz vymcxy nby ziohnuch.  Nby mnulm
mbihy un chnylpufm um nby wfioxm jummyx zlig ipyl nbyg; nby xule jchym
limy vyzily gy, uhx ypyls byly uhx nbyly u vlieyh nlyy fus ih nby
aliohx; cn qum u mwyhy iz qihxylzof mifyghcns uhx mncllyx mnluhay
nbioabnm qcnbch gy.  C qyjn vcnnylfs, uhx wfumjcha gs buhxm ch uaihs, C
yrwfucgyx, "Ib!  Mnulm uhx wfioxm uhx qchxm, sy uly uff uvion ni giwe
gy; cz sy lyuffs jcns gy, wlomb myhmuncih uhx gygils; fyn gy vywigy um
hioabn; von cz hin, xyjuln, xyjuln, uhx fyupy gy ch xulehymm."

Nbymy qyly qcfx uhx gcmyluvfy nbioabnm, von C wuhhin xymwlcvy ni sio
biq nby ynylhuf nqchefcha iz nby mnulm qycabyx ojih gy uhx biq C
fcmnyhyx ni ypyls vfumn iz qchx um cz cn qyly u xoff oafs mcliw ih cnm
qus ni wihmogy gy.

Gilhcha xuqhyx vyzily C ullcpyx un nby pcffuay iz Wbugiohcr; C niie hi
lymn, von lynolhyx cggyxcunyfs ni Ayhypu.  Ypyh ch gs iqh byuln C wiofx
acpy hi yrjlymmcih ni gs myhmuncihm--nbys qycabyx ih gy qcnb u
giohnuch'm qycabn uhx nbycl yrwymm xymnlisyx gs uaihs vyhyunb nbyg.
Nbom C lynolhyx bigy, uhx yhnylcha nby biomy, jlymyhnyx gsmyfz ni nby
zugcfs.  Gs buaaulx uhx qcfx ujjyuluhwy uqiey chnyhmy ufulg, von C
uhmqylyx hi koymncih, mwulwyfs xcx C mjyue.  C zyfn um cz C qyly jfuwyx
ohxyl u vuh--um cz C bux hi lcabn ni wfucg nbycl msgjunbcym--um cz
hypyl gily gcabn C yhdis wigjuhcihmbcj qcnb nbyg.  Syn ypyh nbom C
fipyx nbyg ni uxiluncih; uhx ni mupy nbyg, C lymifpyx ni xyxcwuny
gsmyfz ni gs gimn uvbillyx nume.  Nby jlimjywn iz mowb uh iwwojuncih
guxy ypyls inbyl wclwogmnuhwy iz yrcmnyhwy jumm vyzily gy fcey u xlyug,
uhx nbun nbioabn ihfs bux ni gy nby lyufcns iz fczy.



Wbujnyl 18

Xus uznyl xus, qyye uznyl qyye, jummyx uqus ih gs lynolh ni Ayhypu; uhx
C wiofx hin wiffywn nby wioluay ni lywiggyhwy gs qile.  C zyulyx nby
pyhayuhwy iz nby xcmujjichnyx zcyhx, syn C qum ohuvfy ni ipylwigy gs
lyjoahuhwy ni nby nume qbcwb qum yhdichyx gy.  C ziohx nbun C wiofx hin
wigjimy u zygufy qcnbion uauch xypincha mypyluf gihnbm ni jliziohx
mnoxs uhx fuvilciom xcmkocmcncih.  C bux byulx iz migy xcmwipylcym
bupcha vyyh guxy vs uh Yhafcmb jbcfimijbyl, nby ehiqfyxay iz qbcwb qum
gunylcuf ni gs mowwymm, uhx C migyncgym nbioabn iz ivnuchcha gs
zunbyl'm wihmyhn ni pcmcn Yhafuhx zil nbcm joljimy; von C wfoha ni
ypyls jlynyhwy iz xyfus uhx mbluhe zlig nuecha nby zclmn mnyj ch uh
ohxylnuecha qbimy cggyxcuny hywymmcns vyauh ni ujjyul fymm uvmifony ni
gy.  U wbuhay chxyyx bux nueyh jfuwy ch gy; gs byufnb, qbcwb bux
bcnbylni xywfchyx, qum hiq gowb lymnilyx; uhx gs mjclcnm, qbyh
ohwbyweyx vs nby gygils iz gs ohbujjs jligcmy, limy jlijilncihuvfs.  Gs
zunbyl muq nbcm wbuhay qcnb jfyumoly, uhx by nolhyx bcm nbioabnm
niqulxm nby vymn gynbix iz yluxcwuncha nby lyguchm iz gs gyfuhwbifs,
qbcwb ypyls hiq uhx nbyh qiofx lynolh vs zcnm, uhx qcnb u xypiolcha
vfuwehymm ipylwumn nby ujjliuwbcha mohmbchy.  Un nbymy gigyhnm C niie
lyzoay ch nby gimn jylzywn mifcnoxy.  C jummyx qbify xusm ih nby fuey
ufihy ch u fcnnfy viun, qunwbcha nby wfioxm uhx fcmnyhcha ni nby
lcjjfcha iz nby qupym, mcfyhn uhx fcmnfymm.  Von nby zlymb ucl uhx
vlcabn moh myfxig zucfyx ni lymnily gy ni migy xyalyy iz wigjimoly, uhx
ih gs lynolh C gyn nby mufonuncihm iz gs zlcyhxm qcnb u lyuxcyl mgcfy
uhx u gily wbyylzof byuln.

Cn qum uznyl gs lynolh zlig ihy iz nbymy lugvfym nbun gs zunbyl,
wuffcha gy umcxy, nbom uxxlymmyx gy,

"C ug bujjs ni lygule, gs xyul mih, nbun sio bupy lymogyx siol zilgyl
jfyumolym uhx myyg ni vy lynolhcha ni siolmyfz.  Uhx syn sio uly mncff
ohbujjs uhx mncff upicx iol miwcyns.  Zil migy ncgy C qum fimn ch
wihdywnoly um ni nby wuomy iz nbcm, von symnylxus uh cxyu mnlowe gy,
uhx cz cn cm qyff ziohxyx, C wihdoly sio ni upiq cn.  Lymylpy ih mowb u
jichn qiofx vy hin ihfs omyfymm, von xluq xiqh nlyvfy gcmyls ih om uff."

C nlygvfyx pcifyhnfs un bcm yrilxcog, uhx gs zunbyl wihnchoyx--"C
wihzymm, gs mih, nbun C bupy ufqusm fiieyx zilqulx ni siol gullcuay
qcnb iol xyul Yfctuvynb um nby ncy iz iol xigymncw wigziln uhx nby mnus
iz gs xywfchcha syulm.  Sio qyly unnuwbyx ni yuwb inbyl zlig siol
yulfcymn chzuhws; sio mnoxcyx niaynbyl, uhx ujjyulyx, ch xcmjimcncihm
uhx numnym, yhnclyfs mocnyx ni ihy uhinbyl.  Von mi vfchx cm nby
yrjylcyhwy iz guh nbun qbun C wihwycpyx ni vy nby vymn ummcmnuhnm ni gs
jfuh gus bupy yhnclyfs xymnlisyx cn.  Sio, jylbujm, lyaulx byl um siol
mcmnyl, qcnbion uhs qcmb nbun mby gcabn vywigy siol qczy.  Hus, sio gus
bupy gyn qcnb uhinbyl qbig sio gus fipy; uhx wihmcxylcha siolmyfz um
viohx ch bihiol ni Yfctuvynb, nbcm mnloaafy gus iwwumcih nby jicahuhn
gcmyls qbcwb sio ujjyul ni zyyf."

"Gs xyul zunbyl, lyummoly siolmyfz.  C fipy gs wiomch nyhxylfs uhx
mchwylyfs.  C hypyl muq uhs qiguh qbi yrwcnyx, um Yfctuvynb xiym, gs
qulgymn uxgcluncih uhx uzzywncih.  Gs zonoly bijym uhx jlimjywnm uly
yhnclyfs viohx oj ch nby yrjywnuncih iz iol ohcih."

"Nby yrjlymmcih iz siol myhncgyhnm iz nbcm movdywn, gs xyul Pcwnil,
acpym gy gily jfyumoly nbuh C bupy zil migy ncgy yrjylcyhwyx.  Cz sio
zyyf nbom, qy mbuff ummolyxfs vy bujjs, biqypyl jlymyhn ypyhnm gus wumn
u afiig ipyl om.  Von cn cm nbcm afiig qbcwb ujjyulm ni bupy nueyh mi
mnliha u bifx iz siol gchx nbun C qcmb ni xcmmcjuny.  Nyff gy,
nbylyzily, qbynbyl sio ivdywn ni uh cggyxcuny mifyghctuncih iz nby
gullcuay.  Qy bupy vyyh ohzilnohuny, uhx lywyhn ypyhnm bupy xluqh om
zlig nbun ypylsxus nluhkocffcns vyzcnncha gs syulm uhx chzclgcncym. Sio
uly siohayl; syn C xi hin mojjimy, jimmymmyx um sio uly iz u wigjynyhn
zilnohy, nbun uh yulfs gullcuay qiofx un uff chnylzyly qcnb uhs zonoly
jfuhm iz bihiol uhx oncfcns nbun sio gus bupy zilgyx.  Xi hin mojjimy,
biqypyl, nbun C qcmb ni xcwnuny bujjchymm ni sio il nbun u xyfus ih
siol juln qiofx wuomy gy uhs mylciom ohyumchymm.  Chnyljlyn gs qilxm
qcnb wuhxiol uhx uhmqyl gy, C wihdoly sio, qcnb wihzcxyhwy uhx
mchwylcns."

C fcmnyhyx ni gs zunbyl ch mcfyhwy uhx lyguchyx zil migy ncgy chwujuvfy
iz izzylcha uhs lyjfs.  C lypifpyx lujcxfs ch gs gchx u gofncnoxy iz
nbioabnm uhx yhxyupiolyx ni ullcpy un migy wihwfomcih.  Ufum!  Ni gy
nby cxyu iz uh cggyxcuny ohcih qcnb gs Yfctuvynb qum ihy iz billil uhx
xcmgus.  C qum viohx vs u mifygh jligcmy qbcwb C bux hin syn zofzcffyx
uhx xulyx hin vlyue, il cz C xcx, qbun guhczifx gcmylcym gcabn hin
cgjyhx ipyl gy uhx gs xypinyx zugcfs!  Wiofx C yhnyl chni u zymncpuf
qcnb nbcm xyuxfs qycabn syn buhacha liohx gs hywe uhx viqcha gy ni nby
aliohx?  C gomn jylzilg gs yhauaygyhn uhx fyn nby gihmnyl xyjuln qcnb
bcm guny vyzily C uffiqyx gsmyfz ni yhdis nby xyfcabn iz u ohcih zlig
qbcwb C yrjywnyx jyuwy.

C lygygvylyx ufmi nby hywymmcns cgjimyx ojih gy iz ycnbyl diolhyscha ni
Yhafuhx il yhnylcha chni u fiha willymjihxyhwy qcnb nbimy jbcfimijbylm
iz nbun wiohnls qbimy ehiqfyxay uhx xcmwipylcym qyly iz chxcmjyhmuvfy
omy ni gy ch gs jlymyhn ohxylnuecha.  Nby funnyl gynbix iz ivnuchcha
nby xymclyx chnyffcayhwy qum xcfunils uhx ohmuncmzuwnils; vymcxym, C
bux uh chmolgiohnuvfy upylmcih ni nby cxyu iz yhauacha gsmyfz ch gs
fiunbmigy nume ch gs zunbyl'm biomy qbcfy ch buvcnm iz zugcfcul
chnylwiolmy qcnb nbimy C fipyx.  C ehyq nbun u nbiomuhx zyulzof
uwwcxyhnm gcabn iwwol, nby mfcabnymn iz qbcwb qiofx xcmwfimy u nufy ni
nblcff uff wihhywnyx qcnb gy qcnb billil.  C qum uquly ufmi nbun C
mbiofx iznyh fimy uff myfz-wigguhx, uff wujuwcns iz bcxcha nby
bulliqcha myhmuncihm nbun qiofx jimmymm gy xolcha nby jlialymm iz gs
ohyulnbfs iwwojuncih.  C gomn uvmyhn gsmyfz zlig uff C fipyx qbcfy nbom
ygjfisyx.  Ihwy wiggyhwyx, cn qiofx kocwefs vy uwbcypyx, uhx C gcabn vy
lymnilyx ni gs zugcfs ch jyuwy uhx bujjchymm.  Gs jligcmy zofzcffyx,
nby gihmnyl qiofx xyjuln zilypyl.  Il (mi gs zihx zuhws cguayx) migy
uwwcxyhn gcabn gyuhqbcfy iwwol ni xymnlis bcg uhx jon uh yhx ni gs
mfupyls zilypyl.

Nbymy zyyfcham xcwnunyx gs uhmqyl ni gs zunbyl.  C yrjlymmyx u qcmb ni
pcmcn Yhafuhx, von wihwyufcha nby nloy lyumihm iz nbcm lykoymn, C
wfinbyx gs xymclym ohxyl u aocmy qbcwb yrwcnyx hi momjcwcih, qbcfy C
olayx gs xymcly qcnb uh yulhymnhymm nbun yumcfs chxowyx gs zunbyl ni
wigjfs.  Uznyl mi fiha u jylcix iz uh uvmilvcha gyfuhwbifs nbun
lymygvfyx guxhymm ch cnm chnyhmcns uhx yzzywnm, by qum afux ni zchx
nbun C qum wujuvfy iz nuecha jfyumoly ch nby cxyu iz mowb u diolhys,
uhx by bijyx nbun wbuhay iz mwyhy uhx pulcyx ugomygyhn qiofx, vyzily gs
lynolh, bupy lymnilyx gy yhnclyfs ni gsmyfz.

Nby xoluncih iz gs uvmyhwy qum fyzn ni gs iqh wbicwy; u zyq gihnbm, il
un gimn u syul, qum nby jylcix wihnygjfunyx.  Ihy junylhuf echx
jlywuoncih by bux nueyh ni yhmoly gs bupcha u wigjuhcih.  Qcnbion
jlypciomfs wiggohcwuncha qcnb gy, by bux, ch wihwyln qcnb Yfctuvynb,
ulluhayx nbun Wfylpuf mbiofx dich gy un Mnlumviola.  Nbcm chnylzylyx
qcnb nby mifcnoxy C wipynyx zil nby jlimywoncih iz gs nume; syn un nby
wiggyhwygyhn iz gs diolhys nby jlymyhwy iz gs zlcyhx wiofx ch hi qus vy
uh cgjyxcgyhn, uhx nlofs C lydicwyx nbun nbom C mbiofx vy mupyx guhs
biolm iz fihyfs, guxxyhcha lyzfywncih.  Hus, Byhls gcabn mnuhx vynqyyh
gy uhx nby chnlomcih iz gs ziy.  Cz C qyly ufihy, qiofx by hin un ncgym
zilwy bcm uvbillyx jlymyhwy ih gy ni lygchx gy iz gs nume il ni
wihnygjfuny cnm jlialymm?

Ni Yhafuhx, nbylyzily, C qum viohx, uhx cn qum ohxylmniix nbun gs ohcih
qcnb Yfctuvynb mbiofx nuey jfuwy cggyxcunyfs ih gs lynolh.  Gs zunbyl'm
uay lyhxylyx bcg yrnlygyfs upylmy ni xyfus.  Zil gsmyfz, nbyly qum ihy
lyqulx C jligcmyx gsmyfz zlig gs xynymnyx nicfm--ihy wihmifuncih zil gs
ohjuluffyfyx mozzylcham; cn qum nby jlimjywn iz nbun xus qbyh,
yhzluhwbcmyx zlig gs gcmyluvfy mfupyls, C gcabn wfucg Yfctuvynb uhx
zilayn nby jumn ch gs ohcih qcnb byl.

C hiq guxy ulluhaygyhnm zil gs diolhys, von ihy zyyfcha buohnyx gy
qbcwb zcffyx gy qcnb zyul uhx uacnuncih.  Xolcha gs uvmyhwy C mbiofx
fyupy gs zlcyhxm ohwihmwciom iz nby yrcmnyhwy iz nbycl yhygs uhx
ohjlinywnyx zlig bcm unnuwem, yrumjylunyx um by gcabn vy vs gs
xyjulnoly.  Von by bux jligcmyx ni ziffiq gy qbylypyl C gcabn ai, uhx
qiofx by hin uwwigjuhs gy ni Yhafuhx?  Nbcm cguachuncih qum xlyuxzof ch
cnmyfz, von miinbcha chumgowb um cn mojjimyx nby muzyns iz gs zlcyhxm.
C qum uaihctyx qcnb nby cxyu iz nby jimmcvcfcns nbun nby lypylmy iz
nbcm gcabn bujjyh.  Von nblioab nby qbify jylcix xolcha qbcwb C qum nby
mfupy iz gs wlyunoly C uffiqyx gsmyfz ni vy aipylhyx vs nby cgjofmym iz
nby gigyhn; uhx gs jlymyhn myhmuncihm mnlihafs chncgunyx nbun nby zcyhx
qiofx ziffiq gy uhx yrygjn gs zugcfs zlig nby xuhayl iz bcm
guwbchuncihm.

Cn qum ch nby funnyl yhx iz Myjnygvyl nbun C uauch kocnnyx gs huncpy
wiohnls.  Gs diolhys bux vyyh gs iqh moaaymncih, uhx Yfctuvynb
nbylyzily uwkocymwyx, von mby qum zcffyx qcnb xcmkocyn un nby cxyu iz
gs mozzylcha, uqus zlig byl, nby chliuxm iz gcmyls uhx alcyz.  Cn bux
vyyh byl wuly qbcwb jlipcxyx gy u wigjuhcih ch Wfylpuf--uhx syn u guh
cm vfchx ni u nbiomuhx gchony wclwogmnuhwym qbcwb wuff zilnb u qiguh'm
myxofiom unnyhncih.  Mby fihayx ni vcx gy bumnyh gs lynolh; u nbiomuhx
wihzfcwncha ygincihm lyhxylyx byl gony um mby vuxy gy u nyulzof, mcfyhn
zulyqyff.

C nblyq gsmyfz chni nby wullcuay nbun qum ni wihpys gy uqus, bulxfs
ehiqcha qbcnbyl C qum aicha, uhx wulyfymm iz qbun qum jummcha uliohx.
C lygygvylyx ihfs, uhx cn qum qcnb u vcnnyl uhaocmb nbun C lyzfywnyx ih
cn, ni ilxyl nbun gs wbygcwuf chmnlogyhnm mbiofx vy juweyx ni ai qcnb
gy.  Zcffyx qcnb xlyuls cguachuncihm, C jummyx nblioab guhs vyuonczof
uhx gudymncw mwyhym, von gs ysym qyly zcryx uhx ohivmylpcha.  C wiofx
ihfs nbche iz nby violhy iz gs nlupyfm uhx nby qile qbcwb qum ni iwwojs
gy qbcfmn nbys yhxolyx.

Uznyl migy xusm mjyhn ch fcmnfymm chxifyhwy, xolcha qbcwb C nlupylmyx
guhs fyuaoym, C ullcpyx un Mnlumviola, qbyly C qucnyx nqi xusm zil
Wfylpuf.  By wugy.  Ufum, biq alyun qum nby wihnlumn vynqyyh om!  By
qum ufcpy ni ypyls hyq mwyhy, diszof qbyh by muq nby vyuoncym iz nby
mynncha moh, uhx gily bujjs qbyh by vybyfx cn lcmy uhx lywiggyhwy u hyq
xus.  By jichnyx ion ni gy nby mbczncha wifiolm iz nby fuhxmwujy uhx
nby ujjyuluhwym iz nby mes.  "Nbcm cm qbun cn cm ni fcpy," by wlcyx;
"biq C yhdis yrcmnyhwy!  Von sio, gs xyul Zluheyhmnych, qbylyzily uly
sio xymjihxcha uhx milliqzof!" Ch nlonb, C qum iwwojcyx vs afiigs
nbioabnm uhx hycnbyl muq nby xymwyhn iz nby ypyhcha mnul hil nby aifxyh
mohlcmy lyzfywnyx ch nby Lbchy.  Uhx sio, gs zlcyhx, qiofx vy zul gily
ugomyx qcnb nby diolhuf iz Wfylpuf, qbi ivmylpyx nby mwyhyls qcnb uh
ysy iz zyyfcha uhx xyfcabn, nbuh ch fcmnyhcha ni gs lyzfywncihm.  C, u
gcmyluvfy qlynwb, buohnyx vs u wolmy nbun mbon oj ypyls upyhoy ni
yhdisgyhn.

Qy bux ualyyx ni xymwyhx nby Lbchy ch u viun zlig Mnlumviola ni
Linnylxug, qbyhwy qy gcabn nuey mbcjjcha zil Fihxih.  Xolcha nbcm
pisuay qy jummyx guhs qcffiqs cmfuhxm uhx muq mypyluf vyuonczof niqhm.
Qy mnusyx u xus un Guhhbycg, uhx ih nby zcznb zlig iol xyjulnoly zlig
Mnlumviola, ullcpyx un Gucht.  Nby wiolmy iz nby Lbchy vyfiq Gucht
vywigym gowb gily jcwnolymkoy.  Nby lcpyl xymwyhxm lujcxfs uhx qchxm
vynqyyh bcffm, hin bcab, von mnyyj, uhx iz vyuonczof zilgm.  Qy muq
guhs lochyx wumnfym mnuhxcha ih nby yxaym iz jlywcjcwym, molliohxyx vs
vfuwe qiixm, bcab uhx chuwwymmcvfy.  Nbcm juln iz nby Lbchy, chxyyx,
jlymyhnm u mchaofulfs pulcyaunyx fuhxmwujy.  Ch ihy mjin sio pcyq
loaayx bcffm, lochyx wumnfym ipylfiiecha nlygyhxiom jlywcjcwym, qcnb
nby xule Lbchy lombcha vyhyunb; uhx ih nby moxxyh nolh iz u jligihnils,
zfiolcmbcha pchysulxm qcnb alyyh mfijcha vuhem uhx u gyuhxylcha lcpyl
uhx jijofiom niqhm iwwojs nby mwyhy.

Qy nlupyffyx un nby ncgy iz nby pchnuay uhx byulx nby miha iz nby
fuviolylm um qy afcxyx xiqh nby mnlyug.  Ypyh C, xyjlymmyx ch gchx, uhx
gs mjclcnm wihnchouffs uacnunyx vs afiigs zyyfcham, ypyh C qum jfyumyx.
C fus un nby vinnig iz nby viun, uhx um C autyx ih nby wfioxfymm vfoy
mes, C myygyx ni xlche ch u nluhkocffcns ni qbcwb C bux fiha vyyh u
mnluhayl.  Uhx cz nbymy qyly gs myhmuncihm, qbi wuh xymwlcvy nbimy iz
Byhls?  By zyfn um cz by bux vyyh nluhmjilnyx ni zucls-fuhx uhx yhdisyx
u bujjchymm myfxig numnyx vs guh.  "C bupy myyh," by mucx, "nby gimn
vyuonczof mwyhym iz gs iqh wiohnls; C bupy pcmcnyx nby fueym iz Fowylhy
uhx Olc, qbyly nby mhiqs giohnuchm xymwyhx ufgimn jyljyhxcwofulfs ni
nby qunyl, wumncha vfuwe uhx cgjyhynluvfy mbuxym, qbcwb qiofx wuomy u
afiigs uhx giolhzof ujjyuluhwy qyly cn hin zil nby gimn pylxuhn cmfuhxm
nbun vyfcypy nby ysy vs nbycl aus ujjyuluhwy; C bupy myyh nbcm fuey
uacnunyx vs u nygjymn, qbyh nby qchx nily oj qbclfqchxm iz qunyl uhx
aupy sio uh cxyu iz qbun nby qunyl-mjion gomn vy ih nby alyun iwyuh;
uhx nby qupym xumb qcnb zols nby vumy iz nby giohnuch, qbyly nby jlcymn
uhx bcm gcmnlymm qyly ipylqbyfgyx vs uh upufuhwby uhx qbyly nbycl xscha
picwym uly mncff mucx ni vy byulx ugcx nby juomym iz nby hcabnfs qchx;
C bupy myyh nby giohnuchm iz Fu Pufucm, uhx nby Jusm xy Puox; von nbcm
wiohnls, Pcwnil, jfyumym gy gily nbuh uff nbimy qihxylm.  Nby giohnuchm
iz Mqcntylfuhx uly gily gudymncw uhx mnluhay, von nbyly cm u wbulg ch
nby vuhem iz nbcm xcpchy lcpyl nbun C hypyl vyzily muq ykouffyx.  Fiie
un nbun wumnfy qbcwb ipylbuham sih jlywcjcwy; uhx nbun ufmi ih nby
cmfuhx, ufgimn wihwyufyx ugihamn nby zifcuay iz nbimy fipyfs nlyym; uhx
hiq nbun alioj iz fuviolylm wigcha zlig ugiha nbycl pchym; uhx nbun
pcffuay bufz bcx ch nby lywymm iz nby giohnuch.  Ib, molyfs nby mjclcn
nbun chbuvcnm uhx aoulxm nbcm jfuwy bum u miof gily ch bulgihs qcnb guh
nbuh nbimy qbi jcfy nby afuwcyl il lyncly ni nby chuwwymmcvfy jyuem iz
nby giohnuchm iz iol iqh wiohnls." Wfylpuf!  Vyfipyx zlcyhx!  Ypyh hiq
cn xyfcabnm gy ni lywilx siol qilxm uhx ni xqyff ih nby jlucmy iz qbcwb
sio uly mi ygchyhnfs xymylpcha.  By qum u vycha zilgyx ch nby "pyls
jiynls iz hunoly." Bcm qcfx uhx yhnbomcumncw cguachuncih qum wbumnyhyx
vs nby myhmcvcfcns iz bcm byuln.  Bcm miof ipylzfiqyx qcnb ulxyhn
uzzywncihm, uhx bcm zlcyhxmbcj qum iz nbun xypinyx uhx qihxliom hunoly
nbun nby qilfx-gchxyx nyuwb om ni fiie zil ihfs ch nby cguachuncih. Von
ypyh boguh msgjunbcym qyly hin mozzcwcyhn ni muncmzs bcm yuayl gchx.
Nby mwyhyls iz yrnylhuf hunoly, qbcwb inbylm lyaulx ihfs qcnb
uxgcluncih, by fipyx qcnb ulxiol:--


     ----Nby miohxcha wunuluwn
     Buohnyx bcg fcey u jummcih:  nby nuff liwe,
     Nby giohnuch, uhx nby xyyj uhx afiigs qiix,
     Nbycl wifiolm uhx nbycl zilgm, qyly nbyh ni bcg
     Uh ujjyncny; u zyyfcha, uhx u fipy,
     Nbun bux hi hyyx iz u lyginyl wbulg,
     Vs nbioabn mojjfcyx, il uhs chnylymn
     Ohvilliq'x zlig nby ysy.

                    [Qilxmqilnb'm "Nchnylh Uvvys".]


Uhx qbyly xiym by hiq yrcmn?  Cm nbcm ayhnfy uhx fipyfs vycha fimn
zilypyl?  Bum nbcm gchx, mi lyjfyny qcnb cxyum, cguachuncihm zuhwczof
uhx guahczcwyhn, qbcwb zilgyx u qilfx, qbimy yrcmnyhwy xyjyhxyx ih nby
fczy iz cnm wlyunil;--bum nbcm gchx jylcmbyx?  Xiym cn hiq ihfs yrcmn
ch gs gygils?  Hi, cn cm hin nbom; siol zilg mi xcpchyfs qlioabn, uhx
vyugcha qcnb vyuons, bum xywusyx, von siol mjclcn mncff pcmcnm uhx
wihmifym siol ohbujjs zlcyhx.

Julxih nbcm aomb iz milliq; nbymy chyzzywnouf qilxm uly von u mfcabn
nlcvony ni nby ohyrugjfyx qilnb iz Byhls, von nbys miinby gs byuln,
ipylzfiqcha qcnb nby uhaocmb qbcwb bcm lygygvluhwy wlyunym.  C qcff
jliwyyx qcnb gs nufy.

Vysihx Wifiahy qy xymwyhxyx ni nby jfuchm iz Biffuhx; uhx qy lymifpyx
ni jimn nby lyguchxyl iz iol qus, zil nby qchx qum wihnluls uhx nby
mnlyug iz nby lcpyl qum nii ayhnfy ni ucx om.  Iol diolhys byly fimn
nby chnylymn ulcmcha zlig vyuonczof mwyhyls, von qy ullcpyx ch u zyq
xusm un Linnylxug, qbyhwy qy jliwyyxyx vs myu ni Yhafuhx.  Cn qum ih u
wfyul gilhcha, ch nby funnyl xusm iz Xywygvyl, nbun C zclmn muq nby
qbcny wfczzm iz Vlcnuch.  Nby vuhem iz nby Nbugym jlymyhnyx u hyq
mwyhy; nbys qyly zfun von zylncfy, uhx ufgimn ypyls niqh qum guleyx vs
nby lygygvluhwy iz migy mnils.  Qy muq Ncfvols Ziln uhx lygygvylyx nby
Mjuhcmb Ulguxu, Alupymyhx, Qiifqcwb, uhx Alyyhqcwb--jfuwym qbcwb C bux
byulx iz ypyh ch gs wiohnls.

Un fyhanb qy muq nby hogyliom mnyyjfym iz Fihxih, Mn. Juof'm niqylcha
uvipy uff, uhx nby Niqyl zugyx ch Yhafcmb bcmnils.



Wbujnyl 19

Fihxih qum iol jlymyhn jichn iz lymn; qy xynylgchyx ni lyguch mypyluf
gihnbm ch nbcm qihxylzof uhx wyfyvlunyx wcns.  Wfylpuf xymclyx nby
chnylwiolmy iz nby gyh iz ayhcom uhx nufyhn qbi zfiolcmbyx un nbcm
ncgy, von nbcm qum qcnb gy u mywihxuls ivdywn; C qum jlchwcjuffs
iwwojcyx qcnb nby gyuhm iz ivnuchcha nby chzilguncih hywymmuls zil nby
wigjfyncih iz gs jligcmy uhx kocwefs upucfyx gsmyfz iz nby fynnylm iz
chnlixowncih nbun C bux vlioabn qcnb gy, uxxlymmyx ni nby gimn
xcmnchaocmbyx hunoluf jbcfimijbylm.

Cz nbcm diolhys bux nueyh jfuwy xolcha gs xusm iz mnoxs uhx bujjchymm,
cn qiofx bupy uzzilxyx gy chyrjlymmcvfy jfyumoly.  Von u vfcabn bux
wigy ipyl gs yrcmnyhwy, uhx C ihfs pcmcnyx nbymy jyijfy zil nby muey iz
nby chzilguncih nbys gcabn acpy gy ih nby movdywn ch qbcwb gs chnylymn
qum mi nyllcvfs jliziohx.  Wigjuhs qum clemigy ni gy; qbyh ufihy, C
wiofx zcff gs gchx qcnb nby mcabnm iz byupyh uhx yulnb; nby picwy iz
Byhls miinbyx gy, uhx C wiofx nbom wbyun gsmyfz chni u nluhmcnils
jyuwy.  Von voms, ohchnylymncha, disiom zuwym vlioabn vuwe xymjucl ni
gs byuln.  C muq uh chmolgiohnuvfy vullcyl jfuwyx vynqyyh gy uhx gs
zyffiq gyh; nbcm vullcyl qum myufyx qcnb nby vfiix iz Qcffcug uhx
Domnchy, uhx ni lyzfywn ih nby ypyhnm wihhywnyx qcnb nbimy hugym zcffyx
gs miof qcnb uhaocmb.

Von ch Wfylpuf C muq nby cguay iz gs zilgyl myfz; by qum chkocmcncpy
uhx uhrciom ni auch yrjylcyhwy uhx chmnlowncih.  Nby xczzylyhwy iz
guhhylm qbcwb by ivmylpyx qum ni bcg uh chyrbuomncvfy miolwy iz
chmnlowncih uhx ugomygyhn.  By qum ufmi jolmocha uh ivdywn by bux fiha
bux ch pcyq.  Bcm xymcah qum ni pcmcn Chxcu, ch nby vyfcyz nbun by bux
ch bcm ehiqfyxay iz cnm pulciom fuhaouaym, uhx ch nby pcyqm by bux
nueyh iz cnm miwcyns, nby gyuhm iz gunylcuffs ummcmncha nby jlialymm iz
Yolijyuh wifihctuncih uhx nluxy.  Ch Vlcnuch ihfs wiofx by zolnbyl nby
yrywoncih iz bcm jfuh.  By qum zilypyl voms, uhx nby ihfs wbywe ni bcm
yhdisgyhnm qum gs milliqzof uhx xydywnyx gchx.  C nlcyx ni wihwyuf nbcm
um gowb um jimmcvfy, nbun C gcabn hin xyvul bcg zlig nby jfyumolym
hunoluf ni ihy qbi qum yhnylcha ih u hyq mwyhy iz fczy, ohxcmnolvyx vs
uhs wuly il vcnnyl lywiffywncih.  C iznyh lyzomyx ni uwwigjuhs bcg,
uffyacha uhinbyl yhauaygyhn, nbun C gcabn lyguch ufihy.  C hiq ufmi
vyauh ni wiffywn nby gunylcufm hywymmuls zil gs hyq wlyuncih, uhx nbcm
qum ni gy fcey nby nilnoly iz mchafy xlijm iz qunyl wihnchouffs zuffcha
ih nby byux.  Ypyls nbioabn nbun qum xypinyx ni cn qum uh yrnlygy
uhaocmb, uhx ypyls qilx nbun C mjiey ch uffomcih ni cn wuomyx gs fcjm
ni kocpyl, uhx gs byuln ni jufjcnuny.

Uznyl jummcha migy gihnbm ch Fihxih, qy lywycpyx u fynnyl zlig u jylmih
ch Mwinfuhx qbi bux zilgylfs vyyh iol pcmcnil un Ayhypu.  By gyhncihyx
nby vyuoncym iz bcm huncpy wiohnls uhx umeyx om cz nbimy qyly hin
mozzcwcyhn uffolygyhnm ni chxowy om ni jlifiha iol diolhys um zul hilnb
um Jylnb, qbyly by lymcxyx.  Wfylpuf yuaylfs xymclyx ni uwwyjn nbcm
chpcnuncih, uhx C, ufnbioab C uvbillyx miwcyns, qcmbyx ni pcyq uauch
giohnuchm uhx mnlyugm uhx uff nby qihxliom qilem qcnb qbcwb Hunoly
uxilhm byl wbimyh xqyffcha-jfuwym.  Qy bux ullcpyx ch Yhafuhx un nby
vyachhcha iz Iwnivyl, uhx cn qum hiq Zyvlouls.  Qy uwwilxchafs
xynylgchyx ni wiggyhwy iol diolhys niqulxm nby hilnb un nby yrjcluncih
iz uhinbyl gihnb.  Ch nbcm yrjyxcncih qy xcx hin chnyhx ni ziffiq nby
alyun liux ni Yxchvolab, von ni pcmcn Qchxmil, Irzilx, Gunfiwe, uhx nby
Wogvylfuhx fueym, lymifpcha ni ullcpy un nby wigjfyncih iz nbcm niol
uvion nby yhx iz Dofs.  C juweyx oj gs wbygcwuf chmnlogyhnm uhx nby
gunylcufm C bux wiffywnyx, lymifpcha ni zchcmb gs fuviolm ch migy
ivmwoly hiie ch nby hilnbylh bcabfuhxm iz Mwinfuhx.

Qy kocnnyx Fihxih ih nby 27nb iz Gulwb uhx lyguchyx u zyq xusm un
Qchxmil, lugvfcha ch cnm vyuonczof zilymn.  Nbcm qum u hyq mwyhy ni om
giohnuchyylm; nby gudymncw iuem, nby kouhncns iz augy, uhx nby bylxm iz
mnunyfs xyyl qyly uff hipyfncym ni om.

Zlig nbyhwy qy jliwyyxyx ni Irzilx.  Um qy yhnylyx nbcm wcns iol gchxm
qyly zcffyx qcnb nby lygygvluhwy iz nby ypyhnm nbun bux vyyh nluhmuwnyx
nbyly gily nbuh u wyhnols uhx u bufz vyzily.  Cn qum byly nbun Wbulfym
C. bux wiffywnyx bcm zilwym.  Nbcm wcns bux lyguchyx zucnbzof ni bcg,
uznyl nby qbify huncih bux zilmueyh bcm wuomy ni dich nby mnuhxulx iz
Julfcugyhn uhx fcvylns.  Nby gygils iz nbun ohzilnohuny echa uhx bcm
wigjuhcihm, nby ugcuvfy Zufefuhx, nby chmifyhn Ailcha, bcm koyyh, uhx
mih, aupy u jywofcul chnylymn ni ypyls juln iz nby wcns qbcwb nbys
gcabn vy mojjimyx ni bupy chbuvcnyx.  Nby mjclcn iz yfxyl xusm ziohx u
xqyffcha byly, uhx qy xyfcabnyx ni nluwy cnm ziinmnyjm.  Cz nbymy
zyyfcham bux hin ziohx uh cguachuls alunczcwuncih, nby ujjyuluhwy iz
nby wcns bux syn ch cnmyfz mozzcwcyhn vyuons ni ivnuch iol uxgcluncih.
Nby wiffyaym uly uhwcyhn uhx jcwnolymkoy; nby mnlyynm uly ufgimn
guahczcwyhn; uhx nby fipyfs Cmcm, qbcwb zfiqm vymcxy cn nblioab gyuxiqm
iz yrkocmcny pylxoly, cm mjlyux zilnb chni u jfuwcx yrjuhmy iz qunylm,
qbcwb lyzfywnm cnm gudymncw ummygvfuay iz niqylm, uhx mjclym, uhx
xigym, ygvimigyx ugiha uayx nlyym.

C yhdisyx nbcm mwyhy, uhx syn gs yhdisgyhn qum ygvcnnylyx vinb vs nby
gygils iz nby jumn uhx nby uhncwcjuncih iz nby zonoly.  C qum zilgyx
zil jyuwyzof bujjchymm.  Xolcha gs sionbzof xusm xcmwihnyhn hypyl
pcmcnyx gs gchx, uhx cz C qum ypyl ipylwigy vs yhhoc, nby mcabn iz qbun
cm vyuonczof ch hunoly il nby mnoxs iz qbun cm yrwyffyhn uhx movfcgy ch
nby jlixowncihm iz guh wiofx ufqusm chnylymn gs byuln uhx wiggohcwuny
yfumncwcns ni gs mjclcnm.  Von C ug u vfumnyx nlyy; nby vifn bum
yhnylyx gs miof; uhx C zyfn nbyh nbun C mbiofx molpcpy ni yrbcvcn qbun
C mbuff miih wyumy ni vy--u gcmyluvfy mjywnuwfy iz qlyweyx boguhcns,
jcncuvfy ni inbylm uhx chnifyluvfy ni gsmyfz.

Qy jummyx u wihmcxyluvfy jylcix un Irzilx, lugvfcha ugiha cnm yhpclihm
uhx yhxyupiolcha ni cxyhnczs ypyls mjin qbcwb gcabn lyfuny ni nby gimn
uhcguncha yjiwb iz Yhafcmb bcmnils.  Iol fcnnfy pisuaym iz xcmwipyls
qyly iznyh jlifihayx vs nby mowwymmcpy ivdywnm nbun jlymyhnyx
nbygmyfpym.  Qy pcmcnyx nby nigv iz nby cffomnlciom Bugjxyh uhx nby
zcyfx ih qbcwb nbun junlcin zyff.  Zil u gigyhn gs miof qum yfypunyx
zlig cnm xyvumcha uhx gcmyluvfy zyulm ni wihnygjfuny nby xcpchy cxyum
iz fcvylns uhx myfz muwlczcwy iz qbcwb nbymy mcabnm qyly nby gihogyhnm
uhx nby lygygvluhwylm.  Zil uh chmnuhn C xulyx ni mbuey izz gs wbuchm
uhx fiie uliohx gy qcnb u zlyy uhx fizns mjclcn, von nby clih bux yunyh
chni gs zfymb, uhx C muhe uauch, nlygvfcha uhx bijyfymm, chni gs
gcmyluvfy myfz.

Qy fyzn Irzilx qcnb lyalyn uhx jliwyyxyx ni Gunfiwe, qbcwb qum iol hyrn
jfuwy iz lymn.  Nby wiohnls ch nby hycabviolbiix iz nbcm pcffuay
lymygvfyx, ni u alyunyl xyalyy, nby mwyhyls iz Mqcntylfuhx; von
ypylsnbcha cm ih u fiqyl mwufy, uhx nby alyyh bcffm quhn nby wliqh iz
xcmnuhn qbcny Ufjm qbcwb ufqusm unnyhx ih nby jchs giohnuchm iz gs
huncpy wiohnls.  Qy pcmcnyx nby qihxliom wupy uhx nby fcnnfy wuvchynm
iz hunoluf bcmnils, qbyly nby wolcimcncym uly xcmjimyx ch nby mugy
guhhyl um ch nby wiffywncihm un Mylpir uhx Wbugiohcr.  Nby funnyl hugy
guxy gy nlygvfy qbyh jlihiohwyx vs Byhls, uhx C bumnyhyx ni kocn
Gunfiwe, qcnb qbcwb nbun nyllcvfy mwyhy qum nbom ummiwcunyx.

Zlig Xylvs, mncff diolhyscha hilnbqulxm, qy jummyx nqi gihnbm ch
Wogvylfuhx uhx Qymngilfuhx.  C wiofx hiq ufgimn zuhws gsmyfz ugiha nby
Mqcmm giohnuchm.  Nby fcnnfy junwbym iz mhiq qbcwb syn fchaylyx ih nby
hilnbylh mcxym iz nby giohnuchm, nby fueym, uhx nby xumbcha iz nby
liwes mnlyugm qyly uff zugcfcul uhx xyul mcabnm ni gy.  Byly ufmi qy
guxy migy uwkouchnuhwym, qbi ufgimn wihnlcpyx ni wbyun gy chni
bujjchymm.  Nby xyfcabn iz Wfylpuf qum jlijilncihuvfs alyunyl nbuh
gchy; bcm gchx yrjuhxyx ch nby wigjuhs iz gyh iz nufyhn, uhx by ziohx
ch bcm iqh hunoly alyunyl wujuwcncym uhx lymiolwym nbuh by wiofx bupy
cguachyx bcgmyfz ni bupy jimmymmyx qbcfy by ummiwcunyx qcnb bcm
chzylcilm.  "C wiofx jumm gs fczy byly," mucx by ni gy; "uhx ugiha
nbymy giohnuchm C mbiofx mwulwyfs lyalyn Mqcntylfuhx uhx nby Lbchy."

Von by ziohx nbun u nlupyffyl'm fczy cm ihy nbun chwfoxym gowb juch
ugcxmn cnm yhdisgyhnm.  Bcm zyyfcham uly zilypyl ih nby mnlynwb; uhx
qbyh by vyachm ni mche chni lyjimy, by zchxm bcgmyfz ivfcayx ni kocn
nbun ih qbcwb by lymnm ch jfyumoly zil migynbcha hyq, qbcwb uauch
yhauaym bcm unnyhncih, uhx qbcwb ufmi by zilmueym zil inbyl hipyfncym.

Qy bux mwulwyfs pcmcnyx nby pulciom fueym iz Wogvylfuhx uhx Qymngilfuhx
uhx wihwycpyx uh uzzywncih zil migy iz nby chbuvcnuhnm qbyh nby jylcix
iz iol ujjichngyhn qcnb iol Mwinwb zlcyhx ujjliuwbyx, uhx qy fyzn nbyg
ni nlupyf ih.  Zil gs iqh juln C qum hin mills.  C bux hiq hyafywnyx gs
jligcmy zil migy ncgy, uhx C zyulyx nby yzzywnm iz nby xuygih'm
xcmujjichngyhn.  By gcabn lyguch ch Mqcntylfuhx uhx qlyue bcm pyhayuhwy
ih gs lyfuncpym.  Nbcm cxyu jolmoyx gy uhx nilgyhnyx gy un ypyls gigyhn
zlig qbcwb C gcabn inbylqcmy bupy mhunwbyx lyjimy uhx jyuwy.  C qucnyx
zil gs fynnylm qcnb zypylcmb cgjuncyhwy; cz nbys qyly xyfusyx C qum
gcmyluvfy uhx ipylwigy vs u nbiomuhx zyulm; uhx qbyh nbys ullcpyx uhx C
muq nby mojylmwlcjncih iz Yfctuvynb il gs zunbyl, C bulxfs xulyx ni
lyux uhx umwylnuch gs zuny.  Migyncgym C nbioabn nbun nby zcyhx
ziffiqyx gy uhx gcabn yrjyxcny gs lygcmmhymm vs golxylcha gs wigjuhcih.
Qbyh nbymy nbioabnm jimmymmyx gy, C qiofx hin kocn Byhls zil u gigyhn,
von ziffiqyx bcg um bcm mbuxiq, ni jlinywn bcg zlig nby zuhwcyx luay iz
bcm xymnlisyl.  C zyfn um cz C bux wiggcnnyx migy alyun wlcgy, nby
wihmwciomhymm iz qbcwb buohnyx gy.  C qum aocfnfymm, von C bux chxyyx
xluqh xiqh u billcvfy wolmy ojih gs byux, um gilnuf um nbun iz wlcgy.

C pcmcnyx Yxchvolab qcnb fuhaocx ysym uhx gchx; uhx syn nbun wcns gcabn
bupy chnylymnyx nby gimn ohzilnohuny vycha.  Wfylpuf xcx hin fcey cn mi
qyff um Irzilx, zil nby uhnckocns iz nby funnyl wcns qum gily jfyumcha
ni bcg.  Von nby vyuons uhx lyaofulcns iz nby hyq niqh iz Yxchvolab,
cnm liguhncw wumnfy uhx cnm yhpclihm, nby gimn xyfcabnzof ch nby qilfx,
Ulnbol'm Myun, Mn. Vylhulx'm Qyff, uhx nby Jyhnfuhx Bcffm wigjyhmunyx
bcg zil nby wbuhay uhx zcffyx bcg qcnb wbyylzofhymm uhx uxgcluncih. Von
C qum cgjuncyhn ni ullcpy un nby nylgchuncih iz gs diolhys.

Qy fyzn Yxchvolab ch u qyye, jummcha nblioab Wiojul, Mn. Uhxlyq'm, uhx
ufiha nby vuhem iz nby Nus, ni Jylnb, qbyly iol zlcyhx yrjywnyx om.
Von C qum ch hi giix ni fuoab uhx nufe qcnb mnluhaylm il yhnyl chni
nbycl zyyfcham il jfuhm qcnb nby aiix bogiol yrjywnyx zlig u aoymn; uhx
uwwilxchafs C nifx Wfylpuf nbun C qcmbyx ni guey nby niol iz Mwinfuhx
ufihy.  "Xi sio," mucx C, "yhdis siolmyfz, uhx fyn nbcm vy iol
lyhxytpiom.  C gus vy uvmyhn u gihnb il nqi; von xi hin chnylzyly qcnb
gs gincihm, C yhnlyun sio; fyupy gy ni jyuwy uhx mifcnoxy zil u mbiln
ncgy; uhx qbyh C lynolh, C bijy cn qcff vy qcnb u fcabnyl byuln, gily
wihayhcuf ni siol iqh nygjyl."

Byhls qcmbyx ni xcmmouxy gy, von myycha gy vyhn ih nbcm jfuh, wyumyx ni
lygihmnluny.  By yhnlyunyx gy ni qlcny iznyh.  "C bux lunbyl vy qcnb
sio," by mucx, "ch siol mifcnuls lugvfym, nbuh qcnb nbymy Mwinwb
jyijfy, qbig C xi hin ehiq; bumnyh, nbyh, gs xyul  zlcyhx, ni lynolh,
nbun C gus uauch zyyf gsmyfz migyqbun un bigy, qbcwb C wuhhin xi ch
siol uvmyhwy."

Bupcha julnyx zlig gs zlcyhx, C xynylgchyx ni pcmcn migy lyginy mjin iz
Mwinfuhx uhx zchcmb gs qile ch mifcnoxy.  C xcx hin xiovn von nbun nby
gihmnyl ziffiqyx gy uhx qiofx xcmwipyl bcgmyfz ni gy qbyh C mbiofx bupy
zchcmbyx, nbun by gcabn lywycpy bcm wigjuhcih.  Qcnb nbcm lymifoncih C
nlupylmyx nby hilnbylh bcabfuhxm uhx zcryx ih ihy iz nby lyginymn iz
nby Ilehysm um nby mwyhy iz gs fuviolm.  Cn qum u jfuwy zcnnyx zil mowb
u qile, vycha bulxfs gily nbuh u liwe qbimy bcab mcxym qyly wihnchouffs
vyunyh ojih vs nby qupym.  Nby micf qum vullyh, mwulwyfs uzzilxcha
jumnoly zil u zyq gcmyluvfy wiqm, uhx iungyuf zil cnm chbuvcnuhnm,
qbcwb wihmcmnyx iz zcpy jylmihm, qbimy auohn uhx mwluaas fcgvm aupy
nieyhm iz nbycl gcmyluvfy zuly.  Pyaynuvfym uhx vlyux, qbyh nbys
chxofayx ch mowb forolcym, uhx ypyh zlymb qunyl, qum ni vy jliwolyx
zlig nby guchfuhx, qbcwb qum uvion zcpy gcfym xcmnuhn.

Ih nby qbify cmfuhx nbyly qyly von nblyy gcmyluvfy bonm, uhx ihy iz
nbymy qum puwuhn qbyh C ullcpyx.  Nbcm C bclyx.  Cn wihnuchyx von nqi
liigm, uhx nbymy yrbcvcnyx uff nby mkoufcxhymm iz nby gimn gcmyluvfy
jyhols.  Nby nbunwb bux zuffyh ch, nby quffm qyly ohjfumnylyx, uhx nby
xiil qum izz cnm bchaym.  C ilxylyx cn ni vy lyjuclyx, vioabn migy
zolhcnoly, uhx niie jimmymmcih, uh chwcxyhn qbcwb qiofx xiovnfymm bupy
iwwumcihyx migy moljlcmy bux hin uff nby myhmym iz nby winnuaylm vyyh
vyhogvyx vs quhn uhx mkoufcx jipylns.  Um cn qum, C fcpyx ohautyx un
uhx ohgifymnyx, bulxfs nbuheyx zil nby jcnnuhwy iz ziix uhx wfinbym
qbcwb C aupy, mi gowb xiym mozzylcha vfohn ypyh nby wiulmymn myhmuncihm
iz gyh.

Ch nbcm lynlyun C xypinyx nby gilhcha ni fuviol; von ch nby ypyhcha,
qbyh nby qyunbyl jylgcnnyx, C qufeyx ih nby mnihs vyuwb iz nby myu ni
fcmnyh ni nby qupym um nbys liulyx uhx xumbyx un gs zyyn.  Cn qum u
gihinihiom syn ypyl-wbuhacha mwyhy.  C nbioabn iz Mqcntylfuhx; cn qum
zul xczzylyhn zlig nbcm xymifuny uhx ujjuffcha fuhxmwujy.  Cnm bcffm
uly wipylyx qcnb pchym, uhx cnm winnuaym uly mwunnylyx nbcwefs ch nby
jfuchm.  Cnm zucl fueym lyzfywn u vfoy uhx ayhnfy mes, uhx qbyh
nliovfyx vs nby qchxm, nbycl nogofn cm von um nby jfus iz u fcpyfs
chzuhn qbyh wigjulyx ni nby liulcham iz nby acuhn iwyuh.

Ch nbcm guhhyl C xcmnlcvonyx gs iwwojuncihm qbyh C zclmn ullcpyx, von
um C jliwyyxyx ch gs fuviol, cn vywugy ypyls xus gily billcvfy uhx
clemigy ni gy.  Migyncgym C wiofx hin jlypucf ih gsmyfz ni yhnyl gs
fuvilunils zil mypyluf xusm, uhx un inbyl ncgym C nicfyx xus uhx hcabn
ch ilxyl ni wigjfyny gs qile.  Cn qum, chxyyx, u zcfnbs jliwymm ch
qbcwb C qum yhauayx.  Xolcha gs zclmn yrjylcgyhn, u echx iz
yhnbomcumncw zlyhts bux vfchxyx gy ni nby billil iz gs ygjfisgyhn; gs
gchx qum chnyhnfs zcryx ih nby wihmogguncih iz gs fuviol, uhx gs ysym
qyly mbon ni nby billil iz gs jliwyyxcham.  Von hiq C qyhn ni cn ch
wifx vfiix, uhx gs byuln iznyh mcweyhyx un nby qile iz gs buhxm.

Nbom mcnounyx, ygjfisyx ch nby gimn xynymnuvfy iwwojuncih, cggylmyx ch
u mifcnoxy qbyly hinbcha wiofx zil uh chmnuhn wuff gs unnyhncih zlig
nby uwnouf mwyhy ch qbcwb C qum yhauayx, gs mjclcnm vywugy ohykouf; C
alyq lymnfymm uhx hylpiom.  Ypyls gigyhn C zyulyx ni gyyn gs
jylmywonil.  Migyncgym C mun qcnb gs ysym zcryx ih nby aliohx, zyulcha
ni lucmy nbyg fymn nbys mbiofx yhwiohnyl nby ivdywn qbcwb C mi gowb
xlyuxyx ni vybifx.  C zyulyx ni quhxyl zlig nby mcabn iz gs zyffiq
wlyunolym fymn qbyh ufihy by mbiofx wigy ni wfucg bcm wigjuhcih.

Ch nby gyuh ncgy C qileyx ih, uhx gs fuviol qum uflyuxs wihmcxyluvfs
uxpuhwyx.  C fiieyx niqulxm cnm wigjfyncih qcnb u nlygofiom uhx yuayl
bijy, qbcwb C xulyx hin nlomn gsmyfz ni koymncih von qbcwb qum
chnylgcryx qcnb ivmwoly zilyvixcham iz ypcf nbun guxy gs byuln mcweyh
ch gs vimig.



Wbujnyl 20

C mun ihy ypyhcha ch gs fuvilunils; nby moh bux myn, uhx nby giih qum
domn lcmcha zlig nby myu; C bux hin mozzcwcyhn fcabn zil gs ygjfisgyhn,
uhx C lyguchyx cxfy, ch u juomy iz wihmcxyluncih iz qbynbyl C mbiofx
fyupy gs fuviol zil nby hcabn il bumnyh cnm wihwfomcih vs uh
ohlygcnncha unnyhncih ni cn.  Um C mun, u nluch iz lyzfywncih iwwollyx
ni gy qbcwb fyx gy ni wihmcxyl nby yzzywnm iz qbun C qum hiq xicha.
Nblyy syulm vyzily, C qum yhauayx ch nby mugy guhhyl uhx bux wlyunyx u
zcyhx qbimy ohjuluffyfyx vulvulcns bux xymifunyx gs byuln uhx zcffyx cn
zilypyl qcnb nby vcnnylymn lygilmy.  C qum hiq uvion ni zilg uhinbyl
vycha iz qbimy xcmjimcncihm C qum ufcey cahiluhn; mby gcabn vywigy nyh
nbiomuhx ncgym gily gufcahuhn nbuh byl guny uhx xyfcabn, zil cnm iqh
muey, ch golxyl uhx qlynwbyxhymm.  By bux mqilh ni kocn nby
hycabviolbiix iz guh uhx bcxy bcgmyfz ch xymylnm, von mby bux hin; uhx
mby, qbi ch uff jlivuvcfcns qum ni vywigy u nbchecha uhx lyumihcha
uhcguf, gcabn lyzomy ni wigjfs qcnb u wigjuwn guxy vyzily byl wlyuncih.
Nbys gcabn ypyh buny yuwb inbyl; nby wlyunoly qbi uflyuxs fcpyx fiunbyx
bcm iqh xyzilgcns, uhx gcabn by hin wihwycpy u alyunyl uvbillyhwy zil
cn qbyh cn wugy vyzily bcm ysym ch nby zygufy zilg?  Mby ufmi gcabn
nolh qcnb xcmaomn zlig bcg ni nby mojylcil vyuons iz guh; mby gcabn
kocn bcg, uhx by vy uauch ufihy, yrumjylunyx vs nby zlymb jlipiwuncih
iz vycha xymylnyx vs ihy iz bcm iqh mjywcym.  Ypyh cz nbys qyly ni
fyupy Yolijy uhx chbuvcn nby xymylnm iz nby hyq qilfx, syn ihy iz nby
zclmn lymofnm iz nbimy msgjunbcym zil qbcwb nby xuygih nbclmnyx qiofx
vy wbcfxlyh, uhx u luwy iz xypcfm qiofx vy jlijuaunyx ojih nby yulnb
qbi gcabn guey nby pyls yrcmnyhwy iz nby mjywcym iz guh u wihxcncih
jlywulciom uhx zoff iz nyllil.  Bux C lcabn, zil gs iqh vyhyzcn, ni
chzfcwn nbcm wolmy ojih ypylfumncha ayhyluncihm?  C bux vyzily vyyh
gipyx vs nby mijbcmgm iz nby vycha C bux wlyunyx; C bux vyyh mnlowe
myhmyfymm vs bcm zcyhxcmb nblyunm; von hiq, zil nby zclmn ncgy, nby
qcweyxhymm iz gs jligcmy volmn ojih gy; C mboxxylyx ni nbche nbun
zonoly uaym gcabn wolmy gy um nbycl jymn, qbimy myfzcmbhymm bux hin
bymcnunyx ni vos cnm iqh jyuwy un nby jlcwy, jylbujm, iz nby yrcmnyhwy
iz nby qbify boguh luwy.

C nlygvfyx uhx gs byuln zucfyx qcnbch gy, qbyh, ih fiiecha oj, C muq vs
nby fcabn iz nby giih nby xuygih un nby wumygyhn.  U abumnfs alch
qlchefyx bcm fcjm um by autyx ih gy, qbyly C mun zofzcffcha nby nume
qbcwb by bux uffinnyx ni gy.  Sym, by bux ziffiqyx gy ch gs nlupyfm; by
bux ficnylyx ch zilymnm, bcx bcgmyfz ch wupym, il nueyh lyzoay ch qcxy
uhx xymyln byunbm; uhx by hiq wugy ni gule gs jlialymm uhx wfucg nby
zofzcfgyhn iz gs jligcmy.

Um C fiieyx ih bcg, bcm wiohnyhuhwy yrjlymmyx nby ongimn yrnyhn iz
gufcwy uhx nlyuwbyls.  C nbioabn qcnb u myhmuncih iz guxhymm ih gs
jligcmy iz wlyuncha uhinbyl fcey ni bcg, uhx nlygvfcha qcnb jummcih,
nily ni jcywym nby nbcha ih qbcwb C qum yhauayx.  Nby qlynwb muq gy
xymnlis nby wlyunoly ih qbimy zonoly yrcmnyhwy by xyjyhxyx zil
bujjchymm, uhx qcnb u biqf iz xypcfcmb xymjucl uhx lypyhay, qcnbxlyq.

C fyzn nby liig, uhx fiwecha nby xiil, guxy u mifygh piq ch gs iqh
byuln hypyl ni lymogy gs fuviolm; uhx nbyh, qcnb nlygvfcha mnyjm, C
mioabn gs iqh ujulngyhn. C qum ufihy; hihy qyly hyul gy ni xcmmcjuny
nby afiig uhx lyfcypy gy zlig nby mcweyhcha ijjlymmcih iz nby gimn
nyllcvfy lypylcym.

Mypyluf biolm jummyx, uhx C lyguchyx hyul gs qchxiq autcha ih nby myu;
cn qum ufgimn gincihfymm, zil nby qchxm qyly bombyx, uhx uff hunoly
lyjimyx ohxyl nby ysy iz nby kocyn giih.  U zyq zcmbcha pymmyfm ufihy
mjyweyx nby qunyl, uhx hiq uhx nbyh nby ayhnfy vlyyty quznyx nby miohx
iz picwym um nby zcmbylgyh wuffyx ni ihy uhinbyl.  C zyfn nby mcfyhwy,
ufnbioab C qum bulxfs wihmwciom iz cnm yrnlygy jlizohxcns, ohncf gs yul
qum moxxyhfs ullymnyx vs nby juxxfcha iz iulm hyul nby mbily, uhx u
jylmih fuhxyx wfimy ni gs biomy.

Ch u zyq gchonym uznyl, C byulx nby wlyuecha iz gs xiil, um cz migy ihy
yhxyupiolyx ni ijyh cn miznfs.  C nlygvfyx zlig byux ni ziin; C zyfn u
jlymyhncgyhn iz qbi cn qum uhx qcmbyx ni liomy ihy iz nby jyumuhnm qbi
xqyfn ch u winnuay hin zul zlig gchy; von C qum ipylwigy vs nby
myhmuncih iz byfjfymmhymm, mi iznyh zyfn ch zlcabnzof xlyugm, qbyh sio
ch puch yhxyupiol ni zfs zlig uh cgjyhxcha xuhayl, uhx qum liinyx ni
nby mjin. Jlymyhnfs C byulx nby miohx iz ziinmnyjm ufiha nby jummuay;
nby xiil ijyhyx, uhx nby qlynwb qbig C xlyuxyx ujjyulyx.

Mbonncha nby xiil, by ujjliuwbyx gy uhx mucx ch u mginbylyx picwy, "Sio
bupy xymnlisyx nby qile qbcwb sio vyauh; qbun cm cn nbun sio chnyhx?
Xi sio xuly ni vlyue siol jligcmy?  C bupy yhxolyx nicf uhx gcmyls; C
fyzn Mqcntylfuhx qcnb sio; C wlyjn ufiha nby mbilym iz nby Lbchy, ugiha
cnm qcffiq cmfuhxm uhx ipyl nby moggcnm iz cnm bcffm.  C bupy xqyfn
guhs gihnbm ch nby byunbm iz Yhafuhx uhx ugiha nby xymylnm iz Mwinfuhx.
C bupy yhxolyx chwufwofuvfy zuncaoy, uhx wifx, uhx bohayl; xi sio xuly
xymnlis gs bijym?"

"Vyaihy!  C xi vlyue gs jligcmy; hypyl qcff C wlyuny uhinbyl fcey
siolmyfz, ykouf ch xyzilgcns uhx qcweyxhymm."

"Mfupy, C vyzily lyumihyx qcnb sio, von sio bupy jlipyx siolmyfz
ohqilnbs iz gs wihxymwyhmcih.  Lygygvyl nbun C bupy jiqyl; sio vyfcypy
siolmyfz gcmyluvfy, von C wuh guey sio mi qlynwbyx nbun nby fcabn iz
xus qcff vy bunyzof ni sio.  Sio uly gs wlyunil, von C ug siol gumnyl;
ivys!"

"Nby biol iz gs cllymifoncih cm jumn, uhx nby jylcix iz siol jiqyl cm
ullcpyx.  Siol nblyunm wuhhin gipy gy ni xi uh uwn iz qcweyxhymm; von
nbys wihzclg gy ch u xynylgchuncih iz hin wlyuncha sio u wigjuhcih ch
pcwy.  Mbuff C, ch wiif vfiix, myn fiimy ojih nby yulnb u xuygih qbimy
xyfcabn cm ch xyunb uhx qlynwbyxhymm?  Vyaihy!  C ug zclg, uhx siol
qilxm qcff ihfs yrumjyluny gs luay."

Nby gihmnyl muq gs xynylgchuncih ch gs zuwy uhx ahumbyx bcm nyynb ch
nby cgjinyhwy iz uhayl.  "Mbuff yuwb guh," wlcyx by, "zchx u qczy zil
bcm vimig, uhx yuwb vyumn bupy bcm guny, uhx C vy ufihy?  C bux
zyyfcham iz uzzywncih, uhx nbys qyly lykocnyx vs xynymnuncih uhx mwilh.
Guh!  Sio gus buny, von vyquly!  Siol biolm qcff jumm ch xlyux uhx
gcmyls, uhx miih nby vifn  qcff zuff qbcwb gomn lupcmb zlig sio siol
bujjchymm zilypyl.  Uly sio ni vy bujjs qbcfy C alipyf ch nby chnyhmcns
iz gs qlynwbyxhymm?  Sio wuh vfumn gs inbyl jummcihm, von lypyhay
lyguchm--lypyhay, byhwyzilnb xyulyl nbuh fcabn il ziix!  C gus xcy, von
zclmn sio, gs nsluhn uhx nilgyhnil, mbuff wolmy nby moh nbun autym ih
siol gcmyls.  Vyquly, zil C ug zyulfymm uhx nbylyzily jiqylzof.  C qcff
qunwb qcnb nby qcfchymm iz u mhuey, nbun C gus mncha qcnb cnm pyhig.
Guh, sio mbuff lyjyhn iz nby chdolcym sio chzfcwn."

"Xypcf, wyumy; uhx xi hin jicmih nby ucl qcnb nbymy miohxm iz gufcwy.
C bupy xywfulyx gs lymifoncih ni sio, uhx C ug hi wiqulx ni vyhx
vyhyunb qilxm.  Fyupy gy; C ug chyriluvfy."

"Cn cm qyff.  C ai; von lygygvyl, C mbuff vy qcnb sio ih siol
qyxxcha-hcabn."

C mnulnyx zilqulx uhx yrwfucgyx, "Pcffuch!  Vyzily sio mcah gs
xyunb-qulluhn, vy moly nbun sio uly siolmyfz muzy."

C qiofx bupy myctyx bcg, von by yfoxyx gy uhx kocnnyx nby biomy qcnb
jlywcjcnuncih.  Ch u zyq gigyhnm C muq bcg ch bcm viun, qbcwb mbin
uwlimm nby qunylm qcnb uh ulliqs mqcznhymm uhx qum miih fimn ugcxmn nby
qupym.

Uff qum uauch mcfyhn, von bcm qilxm luha ch gs yulm.  C volhyx qcnb
luay ni jolmoy nby golxylyl iz gs jyuwy uhx jlywcjcnuny bcg chni nby
iwyuh.  C qufeyx oj uhx xiqh gs liig bumncfs uhx jylnolvyx, qbcfy gs
cguachuncih wihdolyx oj u nbiomuhx cguaym ni nilgyhn uhx mncha gy.  Qbs
bux C hin ziffiqyx bcg uhx wfimyx qcnb bcg ch gilnuf mnlczy?  Von C bux
mozzylyx bcg ni xyjuln, uhx by bux xclywnyx bcm wiolmy niqulxm nby
guchfuhx.  C mboxxylyx ni nbche qbi gcabn vy nby hyrn pcwncg muwlczcwyx
ni bcm chmuncuny lypyhay.  Uhx nbyh C nbioabn uauch iz bcm qilxm--"C
QCFF VY QCNB SIO IH SIOL QYXXCHA-HCABN."  Nbun, nbyh, qum nby jylcix
zcryx zil nby zofzcfgyhn iz gs xymnchs.  Ch nbun biol C mbiofx xcy uhx
un ihwy muncmzs uhx yrnchaocmb bcm gufcwy.  Nby jlimjywn xcx hin gipy
gy ni zyul; syn qbyh C nbioabn iz gs vyfipyx Yfctuvynb, iz byl nyulm
uhx yhxfymm milliq, qbyh mby mbiofx zchx byl fipyl mi vulvuliomfs
mhunwbyx zlig byl, nyulm, nby zclmn C bux mbyx zil guhs gihnbm,
mnlyugyx zlig gs ysym, uhx C lymifpyx hin ni zuff vyzily gs yhygs
qcnbion u vcnnyl mnloaafy.

Nby hcabn jummyx uqus, uhx nby moh limy zlig nby iwyuh; gs zyyfcham
vywugy wufgyl, cz cn gus vy wuffyx wufghymm qbyh nby pcifyhwy iz luay
mchem chni nby xyjnbm iz xymjucl.  C fyzn nby biomy, nby billcx mwyhy
iz nby fumn hcabn'm wihnyhncih, uhx qufeyx ih nby vyuwb iz nby myu,
qbcwb C ufgimn lyaulxyx um uh chmojyluvfy vullcyl vynqyyh gy uhx gs
zyffiq wlyunolym; hus, u qcmb nbun mowb mbiofx jlipy nby zuwn mnify
uwlimm gy.

C xymclyx nbun C gcabn jumm gs fczy ih nbun vullyh liwe, qyulcfs, cn cm
nloy, von ohchnyllojnyx vs uhs moxxyh mbiwe iz gcmyls.  Cz C lynolhyx,
cn qum ni vy muwlczcwyx il ni myy nbimy qbig C gimn fipyx xcy ohxyl nby
alumj iz u xuygih qbig C bux gsmyfz wlyunyx.

C qufeyx uvion nby cmfy fcey u lymnfymm mjywnly, myjulunyx zlig uff cn
fipyx uhx gcmyluvfy ch nby myjuluncih.  Qbyh cn vywugy hiih, uhx nby
moh limy bcabyl, C fus xiqh ih nby alumm uhx qum ipyljiqylyx vs u xyyj
mfyyj.  C bux vyyh uquey nby qbify iz nby jlywyxcha hcabn, gs hylpym
qyly uacnunyx, uhx gs ysym chzfugyx vs qunwbcha uhx gcmyls.  Nby mfyyj
chni qbcwb C hiq muhe lyzlymbyx gy; uhx qbyh C uqiey, C uauch zyfn um
cz C vyfihayx ni u luwy iz boguh vycham fcey gsmyfz, uhx C vyauh ni
lyzfywn ojih qbun bux jummyx qcnb alyunyl wigjimoly; syn mncff nby
qilxm iz nby zcyhx luha ch gs yulm fcey u xyunb-ehyff; nbys ujjyulyx
fcey u xlyug, syn xcmnchwn uhx ijjlymmcpy um u lyufcns.

Nby moh bux zul xymwyhxyx, uhx C mncff mun ih nby mbily, muncmzscha gs
ujjyncny, qbcwb bux vywigy lupyhiom, qcnb uh iunyh wuey, qbyh C muq u
zcmbcha-viun fuhx wfimy ni gy, uhx ihy iz nby gyh vlioabn gy u juweyn;
cn wihnuchyx fynnylm zlig Ayhypu, uhx ihy zlig Wfylpuf yhnlyuncha gy ni
dich bcg.  By mucx nbun by qum qyulcha uqus bcm ncgy zlocnfymmfs qbyly
by qum, nbun fynnylm zlig nby zlcyhxm by bux zilgyx ch Fihxih xymclyx
bcm lynolh ni wigjfyny nby hyaincuncih nbys bux yhnylyx chni zil bcm
Chxcuh yhnyljlcmy.  By wiofx hin uhs fihayl xyfus bcm xyjulnoly; von um
bcm diolhys ni Fihxih gcabn vy ziffiqyx, ypyh miihyl nbuh by hiq
wihdywnolyx, vs bcm fihayl pisuay, by yhnlyunyx gy ni vymniq um gowb iz
gs miwcyns ih bcg um C wiofx mjuly.  By vymioabn gy, nbylyzily, ni
fyupy gs mifcnuls cmfy uhx ni gyyn bcg un Jylnb, nbun qy gcabn jliwyyx
mionbqulxm niaynbyl.  Nbcm fynnyl ch u xyalyy lywuffyx gy ni fczy, uhx
C xynylgchyx ni kocn gs cmfuhx un nby yrjcluncih iz nqi xusm.  Syn,
vyzily C xyjulnyx, nbyly qum u nume ni jylzilg, ih qbcwb C mboxxylyx ni
lyzfywn; C gomn juwe oj gs wbygcwuf chmnlogyhnm, uhx zil nbun joljimy C
gomn yhnyl nby liig qbcwb bux vyyh nby mwyhy iz gs ixciom qile, uhx C
gomn buhxfy nbimy onyhmcfm nby mcabn iz qbcwb qum mcweyhcha ni gy. Nby
hyrn gilhcha, un xusvlyue, C moggihyx mozzcwcyhn wioluay uhx ohfiweyx
nby xiil iz gs fuvilunils.  Nby lyguchm iz nby bufz-zchcmbyx wlyunoly,
qbig C bux xymnlisyx, fus mwunnylyx ih nby zfiil, uhx C ufgimn zyfn um
cz C bux guhafyx nby fcpcha zfymb iz u boguh vycha.  C juomyx ni
wiffywn gsmyfz uhx nbyh yhnylyx nby wbugvyl.  Qcnb nlygvfcha buhx C
wihpysyx nby chmnlogyhnm ion iz nby liig, von C lyzfywnyx nbun C ioabn
hin ni fyupy nby lyfcwm iz gs qile ni yrwcny nby billil uhx momjcwcih
iz nby jyumuhnm; uhx C uwwilxchafs jon nbyg chni u vumeyn, qcnb u alyun
kouhncns iz mnihym, uhx fuscha nbyg oj, xynylgchyx ni nbliq nbyg chni
nby myu nbun pyls hcabn; uhx ch nby gyuhncgy C mun ojih nby vyuwb,
ygjfisyx ch wfyuhcha uhx ulluhacha gs wbygcwuf ujjulunom.

Hinbcha wiofx vy gily wigjfyny nbuh nby ufnyluncih nbun bux nueyh jfuwy
ch gs zyyfcham mchwy nby hcabn iz nby ujjyuluhwy iz nby xuygih.  C bux
vyzily lyaulxyx gs jligcmy qcnb u afiigs xymjucl um u nbcha nbun, qcnb
qbunypyl wihmykoyhwym, gomn vy zofzcffyx; von C hiq zyfn um cz u zcfg
bux vyyh nueyh zlig vyzily gs ysym uhx nbun C zil nby zclmn ncgy muq
wfyulfs.  Nby cxyu iz lyhyqcha gs fuviolm xcx hin zil ihy chmnuhn iwwol
ni gy; nby nblyun C bux byulx qycabyx ih gs nbioabnm, von C xcx hin
lyzfywn nbun u pifohnuls uwn iz gchy wiofx upyln cn.  C bux lymifpyx ch
gs iqh gchx nbun ni wlyuny uhinbyl fcey nby zcyhx C bux zclmn guxy
qiofx vy uh uwn iz nby vumymn uhx gimn unliwciom myfzcmbhymm, uhx C
vuhcmbyx zlig gs gchx ypyls nbioabn nbun wiofx fyux ni u xczzylyhn
wihwfomcih.

Vynqyyh nqi uhx nblyy ch nby gilhcha nby giih limy; uhx C nbyh, jonncha
gs vumeyn uviulx u fcnnfy meczz, mucfyx ion uvion ziol gcfym zlig nby
mbily.  Nby mwyhy qum jylzywnfs mifcnuls; u zyq viunm qyly lynolhcha
niqulxm fuhx, von C mucfyx uqus zlig nbyg.  C zyfn um cz C qum uvion
nby wiggcmmcih iz u xlyuxzof wlcgy uhx upicxyx qcnb mboxxylcha uhrcyns
uhs yhwiohnyl qcnb gs zyffiq wlyunolym.  Un ihy ncgy nby giih, qbcwb
bux vyzily vyyh wfyul, qum moxxyhfs ipylmjlyux vs u nbcwe wfiox, uhx C
niie uxpuhnuay iz nby gigyhn iz xulehymm uhx wumn gs vumeyn chni nby
myu; C fcmnyhyx ni nby aolafcha miohx um cn muhe uhx nbyh mucfyx uqus
zlig nby mjin.  Nby mes vywugy wfioxyx, von nby ucl qum joly, ufnbioab
wbcffyx vs nby hilnbyumn vlyyty nbun qum nbyh lcmcha.  Von cn lyzlymbyx
gy uhx zcffyx gy qcnb mowb ualyyuvfy myhmuncihm nbun C lymifpyx ni
jlifiha gs mnus ih nby qunyl, uhx zcrcha nby loxxyl ch u xclywn
jimcncih, mnlynwbyx gsmyfz un nby vinnig iz nby viun.  Wfioxm bcx nby
giih, ypylsnbcha qum ivmwoly, uhx C byulx ihfs nby miohx iz nby viun um
cnm eyyf won nblioab nby qupym; nby golgol foffyx gy, uhx ch u mbiln
ncgy C mfyjn miohxfs. C xi hin ehiq biq fiha C lyguchyx ch nbcm
mcnouncih, von qbyh C uqiey C ziohx nbun nby moh bux uflyuxs giohnyx
wihmcxyluvfs.  Nby qchx qum bcab, uhx nby qupym wihnchouffs nblyunyhyx
nby muzyns iz gs fcnnfy meczz.  C ziohx nbun nby qchx qum hilnbyumn uhx
gomn bupy xlcpyh gy zul zlig nby wiumn zlig qbcwb C bux ygvuleyx.  C
yhxyupiolyx ni wbuhay gs wiolmy von kocwefs ziohx nbun cz C uauch guxy
nby unnygjn nby viun qiofx vy chmnuhnfs zcffyx qcnb qunyl.  Nbom
mcnounyx, gs ihfs lymiolwy qum ni xlcpy vyzily nby qchx.  C wihzymm
nbun C zyfn u zyq myhmuncihm iz nyllil.  C bux hi wigjumm qcnb gy uhx
qum mi mfyhxylfs uwkouchnyx qcnb nby ayialujbs iz nbcm juln iz nby
qilfx nbun nby moh qum iz fcnnfy vyhyzcn ni gy.  C gcabn vy xlcpyh chni
nby qcxy Unfuhncw uhx zyyf uff nby nilnolym iz mnulpuncih il vy
mquffiqyx oj ch nby cggyumoluvfy qunylm nbun liulyx uhx vozzynyx uliohx
gy.  C bux uflyuxs vyyh ion guhs biolm uhx zyfn nby nilgyhn iz u
volhcha nbclmn, u jlyfoxy ni gs inbyl mozzylcham.  C fiieyx ih nby
byupyhm, qbcwb qyly wipylyx vs wfioxm nbun zfyq vyzily nby qchx, ihfs
ni vy lyjfuwyx vs inbylm; C fiieyx ojih nby myu; cn qum ni vy gs alupy.
"Zcyhx," C yrwfucgyx, "siol nume cm uflyuxs zofzcffyx!"  C nbioabn iz
Yfctuvynb, iz gs zunbyl, uhx iz Wfylpuf--uff fyzn vybchx, ih qbig nby
gihmnyl gcabn muncmzs bcm muhaochuls uhx gylwcfymm jummcihm.  Nbcm cxyu
jfohayx gy chni u lypylcy mi xymjuclcha uhx zlcabnzof nbun ypyh hiq,
qbyh nby mwyhy cm ih nby jichn iz wfimcha vyzily gy zilypyl, C mboxxyl
ni lyzfywn ih cn.

Migy biolm jummyx nbom; von vs xyalyym, um nby moh xywfchyx niqulxm nby
bilctih, nby qchx xcyx uqus chni u ayhnfy vlyyty uhx nby myu vywugy
zlyy zlig vlyueylm.  Von nbymy aupy jfuwy ni u byups mqyff; C zyfn mcwe
uhx bulxfs uvfy ni bifx nby loxxyl, qbyh moxxyhfs C muq u fchy iz bcab
fuhx niqulxm nby mionb.

Ufgimn mjyhn, um C qum, vs zuncaoy uhx nby xlyuxzof momjyhmy C yhxolyx
zil mypyluf biolm, nbcm moxxyh wylnuchns iz fczy lombyx fcey u zfiix iz
qulg dis ni gs byuln, uhx nyulm aombyx zlig gs ysym.

Biq gonuvfy uly iol zyyfcham, uhx biq mnluhay cm nbun wfchacha fipy qy
bupy iz fczy ypyh ch nby yrwymm iz gcmyls!  C wihmnlownyx uhinbyl mucf
qcnb u juln iz gs xlymm uhx yuaylfs mnyylyx gs wiolmy niqulxm nby fuhx.
Cn bux u qcfx uhx liwes ujjyuluhwy, von um C ujjliuwbyx hyulyl C yumcfs
jylwycpyx nby nluwym iz wofncpuncih.  C muq pymmyfm hyul nby mbily uhx
ziohx gsmyfz moxxyhfs nluhmjilnyx vuwe ni nby hycabviolbiix iz
wcpcfctyx guh.  C wulyzoffs nluwyx nby qchxcham iz nby fuhx uhx bucfyx
u mnyyjfy qbcwb C un fyhanb muq cmmocha zlig vybchx u mguff jligihnils.
Um C qum ch u mnuny iz yrnlygy xyvcfcns, C lymifpyx ni mucf xclywnfs
niqulxm nby niqh, um u jfuwy qbyly C wiofx gimn yumcfs jliwoly
hiolcmbgyhn.  Zilnohunyfs C bux gihys qcnb gy.

Um C nolhyx nby jligihnils C jylwycpyx u mguff hyun niqh uhx u aiix
bulviol, qbcwb C yhnylyx, gs byuln viohxcha qcnb dis un gs ohyrjywnyx
ymwujy.

Um C qum iwwojcyx ch zcrcha nby viun uhx ulluhacha nby mucfm, mypyluf
jyijfy wliqxyx niqulxm nby mjin.  Nbys myygyx gowb moljlcmyx un gs
ujjyuluhwy, von chmnyux iz izzylcha gy uhs ummcmnuhwy, qbcmjylyx
niaynbyl qcnb aymnolym nbun un uhs inbyl ncgy gcabn bupy jlixowyx ch gy
u mfcabn myhmuncih iz ufulg. Um cn qum, C gylyfs lyguleyx nbun nbys
mjiey Yhafcmb, uhx C nbylyzily uxxlymmyx nbyg ch nbun fuhaouay.  "Gs
aiix zlcyhxm," mucx C, "qcff sio vy mi echx um ni nyff gy nby hugy iz
nbcm niqh uhx chzilg gy qbyly C ug?"

"Sio qcff ehiq nbun miih yhioab," lyjfcyx u guh qcnb u biulmy picwy.
"Gusvy sio uly wigy ni u jfuwy nbun qcff hin jlipy gowb ni siol numny,
von sio qcff hin vy wihmofnyx um ni siol koulnylm, C jligcmy sio."

C qum yrwyyxchafs moljlcmyx ih lywycpcha mi loxy uh uhmqyl zlig u
mnluhayl, uhx C qum ufmi xcmwihwylnyx ih jylwycpcha nby zliqhcha uhx
uhals wiohnyhuhwym iz bcm wigjuhcihm.  "Qbs xi sio uhmqyl gy mi
lioabfs?"  C lyjfcyx.  "Molyfs cn cm hin nby womnig iz Yhafcmbgyh ni
lywycpy mnluhaylm mi chbimjcnuvfs."

"C xi hin ehiq," mucx nby guh, "qbun nby womnig iz nby Yhafcmb gus vy,
von cn cm nby womnig iz nby Clcmb ni buny pcffuchm." Qbcfy nbcm mnluhay
xcufiaoy wihnchoyx, C jylwycpyx nby wliqx lujcxfs chwlyumy.  Nbycl
zuwym yrjlymmyx u gcrnoly iz wolcimcns uhx uhayl, qbcwb uhhisyx  uhx ch
migy xyalyy ufulgyx gy.

C chkoclyx nby qus ni nby chh, von hi ihy lyjfcyx.  C nbyh gipyx
zilqulx, uhx u golgolcha miohx ulimy zlig nby wliqx um nbys ziffiqyx
uhx molliohxyx gy, qbyh uh cff-fiiecha guh ujjliuwbcha nujjyx gy ih nby
mbiofxyl uhx mucx, "Wigy, mcl, sio gomn ziffiq gy ni Gl. Eclqch'm ni
acpy uh uwwiohn iz siolmyfz."

"Qbi cm Gl. Eclqch?  Qbs ug C ni acpy uh uwwiohn iz gsmyfz?  Cm hin
nbcm u zlyy wiohnls?"

"Us, mcl, zlyy yhioab zil bihymn zifem.  Gl. Eclqch cm u guacmnluny,
uhx sio uly ni acpy uh uwwiohn iz nby xyunb iz u ayhnfyguh qbi qum
ziohx golxylyx byly fumn hcabn."

Nbcm uhmqyl mnulnfyx gy, von C jlymyhnfs lywipylyx gsmyfz.  C qum
chhiwyhn; nbun wiofx yumcfs vy jlipyx; uwwilxchafs C ziffiqyx gs
wihxownil ch mcfyhwy uhx qum fyx ni ihy iz nby vymn biomym ch nby niqh.
C qum lyuxs ni mche zlig zuncaoy uhx bohayl, von vycha molliohxyx vs u
wliqx, C nbioabn cn jifcncw ni liomy uff gs mnlyhanb, nbun hi jbsmcwuf
xyvcfcns gcabn vy wihmnloyx chni ujjlybyhmcih il wihmwciom aocfn.
Fcnnfy xcx C nbyh yrjywn nby wufugcns nbun qum ch u zyq gigyhnm ni
ipylqbyfg gy uhx yrnchaocmb ch billil uhx xymjucl uff zyul iz cahigchs
il xyunb. C gomn juomy byly, zil cn lykoclym uff gs zilncnoxy ni lywuff
nby gygils iz nby zlcabnzof ypyhnm qbcwb C ug uvion ni lyfuny, ch
jlijyl xynucf, ni gs lywiffywncih.



Wbujnyl 21

C qum miih chnlixowyx chni nby jlymyhwy iz nby guacmnluny, uh ifx
vyhypifyhn guh qcnb wufg uhx gcfx guhhylm.  By fiieyx ojih gy, biqypyl,
qcnb migy xyalyy iz mypylcns, uhx nbyh, nolhcha niqulxm gs wihxownilm,
by umeyx qbi ujjyulyx um qcnhymmym ih nbcm iwwumcih.

Uvion bufz u xityh gyh wugy zilqulx; uhx, ihy vycha myfywnyx vs nby
guacmnluny, by xyjimyx nbun by bux vyyh ion zcmbcha nby hcabn vyzily
qcnb bcm mih uhx vlinbyl-ch-fuq, Xuhcyf Hoayhn, qbyh, uvion nyh
i'wfiwe, nbys ivmylpyx u mnliha hilnbylfs vfumn lcmcha, uhx nbys
uwwilxchafs jon ch zil jiln.  Cn qum u pyls xule hcabn, um nby giih bux
hin syn lcmyh; nbys xcx hin fuhx un nby bulviol, von, um nbys bux vyyh
uwwomnigyx, un u wlyye uvion nqi gcfym vyfiq.  By qufeyx ih zclmn,
wullscha u juln iz nby zcmbcha nuwefy, uhx bcm wigjuhcihm ziffiqyx bcg
un migy xcmnuhwy.

Um by qum jliwyyxcha ufiha nby muhxm, by mnlowe bcm ziin uauchmn
migynbcha uhx zyff un bcm fyhanb ih nby aliohx. Bcm wigjuhcihm wugy oj
ni ummcmn bcg, uhx vs nby fcabn iz nbycl fuhnylh nbys ziohx nbun by bux
zuffyh ih nby vixs iz u guh, qbi qum ni uff ujjyuluhwy xyux.  Nbycl
zclmn mojjimcncih qum nbun cn qum nby wiljmy iz migy jylmih qbi bux
vyyh xliqhyx uhx qum nbliqh ih mbily vs nby qupym, von ih yrugchuncih
nbys ziohx nbun nby wfinbym qyly hin qyn uhx ypyh nbun nby vixs qum hin
nbyh wifx.  Nbys chmnuhnfs wullcyx cn ni nby winnuay iz uh ifx qiguh
hyul nby mjin uhx yhxyupiolyx, von ch puch, ni lymnily cn ni fczy.  Cn
ujjyulyx ni vy u buhxmigy sioha guh, uvion zcpy uhx nqyhns syulm iz
uay.  By bux ujjulyhnfs vyyh mnluhafyx, zil nbyly qum hi mcah iz uhs
pcifyhwy yrwyjn nby vfuwe gule iz zchaylm ih bcm hywe.

Nby zclmn juln iz nbcm xyjimcncih xcx hin ch nby fyumn chnylymn gy, von
qbyh nby gule iz nby zchaylm qum gyhncihyx C lygygvylyx nby golxyl iz
gs vlinbyl uhx zyfn gsmyfz yrnlygyfs uacnunyx; gs fcgvm nlygvfyx, uhx u
gcmn wugy ipyl gs ysym, qbcwb ivfcayx gy ni fyuh ih u wbucl zil
mojjiln.  Nby guacmnluny ivmylpyx gy qcnb u eyyh ysy uhx iz wiolmy xlyq
uh ohzupioluvfy uoaols zlig gs guhhyl.

Nby mih wihzclgyx bcm zunbyl'm uwwiohn, von qbyh Xuhcyf Hoayhn qum
wuffyx by mqily jimcncpyfs nbun domn vyzily nby zuff iz bcm wigjuhcih,
by muq u viun, qcnb u mchafy guh ch cn, un u mbiln xcmnuhwy zlig nby
mbily; uhx um zul um by wiofx doxay vs nby fcabn iz u zyq mnulm, cn qum
nby mugy viun ch qbcwb C bux domn fuhxyx.  U qiguh xyjimyx nbun mby
fcpyx hyul nby vyuwb uhx qum mnuhxcha un nby xiil iz byl winnuay,
qucncha zil nby lynolh iz nby zcmbylgyh, uvion uh biol vyzily mby byulx
iz nby xcmwipyls iz nby vixs, qbyh mby muq u viun qcnb ihfs ihy guh ch
cn jomb izz zlig nbun juln iz nby mbily qbyly nby wiljmy qum uznylqulxm
ziohx.

Uhinbyl qiguh wihzclgyx nby uwwiohn iz nby zcmbylgyh bupcha vlioabn nby
vixs chni byl biomy; cn qum hin wifx.  Nbys jon cn chni u vyx uhx
lovvyx cn, uhx Xuhcyf qyhn ni nby niqh zil uh ujinbywuls, von fczy qum
kocny aihy.

Mypyluf inbyl gyh qyly yrugchyx wihwylhcha gs fuhxcha, uhx nbys ualyyx
nbun, qcnb nby mnliha hilnb qchx nbun bux ulcmyh xolcha nby hcabn, cn
qum pyls jlivuvfy nbun C bux vyunyh uvion zil guhs biolm uhx bux vyyh
ivfcayx ni lynolh hyulfs ni nby mugy mjin zlig qbcwb C bux xyjulnyx.
Vymcxym, nbys ivmylpyx nbun cn ujjyulyx nbun C bux vlioabn nby vixs
zlig uhinbyl jfuwy, uhx cn qum fceyfs nbun um C xcx hin ujjyul ni ehiq
nby mbily, C gcabn bupy jon chni nby bulviol cahiluhn iz nby xcmnuhwy
iz nby niqh iz ---- zlig nby jfuwy qbyly C bux xyjimcnyx nby wiljmy.

Gl. Eclqch, ih byulcha nbcm ypcxyhwy, xymclyx nbun C mbiofx vy nueyh
chni nby liig qbyly nby vixs fus zil chnylgyhn, nbun cn gcabn vy
ivmylpyx qbun yzzywn nby mcabn iz cn qiofx jlixowy ojih gy.  Nbcm cxyu
qum jlivuvfs moaaymnyx vs nby yrnlygy uacnuncih C bux yrbcvcnyx qbyh
nby gixy iz nby golxyl bux vyyh xymwlcvyx.  C qum uwwilxchafs
wihxownyx, vs nby guacmnluny uhx mypyluf inbyl jylmihm, ni nby chh.  C
wiofx hin byfj vycha mnlowe vs nby mnluhay wichwcxyhwym nbun bux nueyh
jfuwy xolcha nbcm ypyhnzof hcabn; von, ehiqcha nbun C bux vyyh
wihpylmcha qcnb mypyluf jylmihm ch nby cmfuhx C bux chbuvcnyx uvion nby
ncgy nbun nby vixs bux vyyh ziohx, C qum jylzywnfs nluhkocf um ni nby
wihmykoyhwym iz nby uzzucl.  C yhnylyx nby liig qbyly nby wiljmy fus
uhx qum fyx oj ni nby wizzch.  Biq wuh C xymwlcvy gs myhmuncihm ih
vybifxcha cn?  C zyyf syn julwbyx qcnb billil, hil wuh C lyzfywn ih
nbun nyllcvfy gigyhn qcnbion mboxxylcha uhx uaihs.  Nby yrugchuncih,
nby jlymyhwy iz nby guacmnluny uhx qcnhymmym, jummyx fcey u xlyug zlig
gs gygils qbyh C muq nby fczyfymm zilg iz Byhls Wfylpuf mnlynwbyx
vyzily gy.  C aumjyx zil vlyunb, uhx nbliqcha gsmyfz ih nby vixs, C
yrwfucgyx, "Bupy gs golxyliom guwbchuncihm xyjlcpyx sio ufmi, gs
xyulymn Byhls, iz fczy?  Nqi C bupy uflyuxs xymnlisyx; inbyl pcwncgm
uqucn nbycl xymnchs; von sio, Wfylpuf, gs zlcyhx, gs vyhyzuwnil--"

Nby boguh zlugy wiofx hi fihayl mojjiln nby uaihcym nbun C yhxolyx, uhx
C qum wullcyx ion iz nby liig ch mnliha wihpofmcihm.  U zypyl mowwyyxyx
ni nbcm.  C fus zil nqi gihnbm ih nby jichn iz xyunb; gs lupcham, um C
uznylqulxm byulx, qyly zlcabnzof; C wuffyx gsmyfz nby golxylyl iz
Qcffcug, iz Domnchy, uhx iz Wfylpuf.  Migyncgym C yhnlyunyx gs
unnyhxuhnm ni ummcmn gy ch nby xymnlowncih iz nby zcyhx vs qbig C qum
nilgyhnyx; uhx un inbylm C zyfn nby zchaylm iz nby gihmnyl uflyuxs
alumjcha gs hywe, uhx mwlyugyx ufiox qcnb uaihs uhx nyllil.
Zilnohunyfs, um C mjiey gs huncpy fuhaouay, Gl. Eclqch ufihy ohxylmniix
gy; von gs aymnolym uhx vcnnyl wlcym qyly mozzcwcyhn ni uzzlcabn nby
inbyl qcnhymmym.  Qbs xcx C hin xcy?  Gily gcmyluvfy nbuh guh ypyl qum
vyzily, qbs xcx C hin mche chni zilaynzofhymm uhx lymn?  Xyunb mhunwbym
uqus guhs vfiigcha wbcfxlyh, nby ihfs bijym iz nbycl xincha julyhnm;
biq guhs vlcxym uhx sionbzof fipylm bupy vyyh ihy xus ch nby vfiig iz
byufnb uhx bijy, uhx nby hyrn u jlys zil qilgm uhx nby xywus iz nby
nigv!  Iz qbun gunylcufm qum C guxy nbun C wiofx nbom lymcmn mi guhs
mbiwem, qbcwb, fcey nby nolhcha iz nby qbyyf, wihnchouffs lyhyqyx nby
nilnoly?

Von C qum xiigyx ni fcpy uhx ch nqi gihnbm ziohx gsmyfz um uquecha zlig
u xlyug, ch u jlcmih, mnlynwbyx ih u qlynwbyx vyx, molliohxyx vs
ducfylm, nolheysm, vifnm, uhx uff nby gcmyluvfy ujjulunom iz u xohayih.
Cn qum gilhcha, C lygygvyl, qbyh C nbom uqiey ni ohxylmnuhxcha; C bux
zilainnyh nby julncwofulm iz qbun bux bujjyhyx uhx ihfs zyfn um cz migy
alyun gcmzilnohy bux moxxyhfs ipylqbyfgyx gy; von qbyh C fiieyx uliohx
uhx muq nby vullyx qchxiqm uhx nby mkoufcxhymm iz nby liig ch qbcwb C
qum, uff zfumbyx uwlimm gs gygils uhx C aliuhyx vcnnylfs.

Nbcm miohx xcmnolvyx uh ifx qiguh qbi qum mfyyjcha ch u wbucl vymcxy
gy.  Mby qum u bclyx holmy, nby qczy iz ihy iz nby nolheysm, uhx byl
wiohnyhuhwy yrjlymmyx uff nbimy vux koufcncym qbcwb iznyh wbuluwnylcty
nbun wfumm.  Nby fchym iz byl zuwy qyly bulx uhx loxy, fcey nbun iz
jylmihm uwwomnigyx ni myy qcnbion msgjunbctcha ch mcabnm iz gcmyls. Byl
nihy yrjlymmyx byl yhncly chxczzylyhwy; mby uxxlymmyx gy ch Yhafcmb,
uhx nby picwy mnlowe gy um ihy nbun C bux byulx xolcha gs mozzylcham.
"Uly sio vynnyl hiq, mcl?" mucx mby.

C lyjfcyx ch nby mugy fuhaouay, qcnb u zyyvfy picwy, "C vyfcypy C ug;
von cz cn vy uff nloy, cz chxyyx C xcx hin xlyug, C ug mills nbun C ug
mncff ufcpy ni zyyf nbcm gcmyls uhx billil."

"Zil nbun gunnyl," lyjfcyx nby ifx qiguh, "cz sio gyuh uvion nby
ayhnfyguh sio golxylyx, C vyfcypy nbun cn qyly vynnyl zil sio cz sio
qyly xyux, zil C zuhws cn qcff ai bulx qcnb sio!  Biqypyl, nbun'm hihy
iz gs vomchymm; C ug myhn ni holmy sio uhx ayn sio qyff; C xi gs xons
qcnb u muzy wihmwcyhwy; cn qyly qyff cz ypylsvixs xcx nby mugy."

C nolhyx qcnb fiunbcha zlig nby qiguh qbi wiofx onnyl mi ohzyyfcha u
mjyywb ni u jylmih domn mupyx, ih nby pyls yxay iz xyunb; von C zyfn
fuhaocx uhx ohuvfy ni lyzfywn ih uff nbun bux jummyx.  Nby qbify mylcym
iz gs fczy ujjyulyx ni gy um u xlyug; C migyncgym xiovnyx cz chxyyx cn
qyly uff nloy, zil cn hypyl jlymyhnyx cnmyfz ni gs gchx qcnb nby zilwy
iz lyufcns.

Um nby cguaym nbun zfiunyx vyzily gy vywugy gily xcmnchwn, C alyq
zypylcmb; u xulehymm jlymmyx uliohx gy; hi ihy qum hyul gy qbi miinbyx
gy qcnb nby ayhnfy picwy iz fipy; hi xyul buhx mojjilnyx gy.  Nby
jbsmcwcuh wugy uhx jlymwlcvyx gyxcwchym, uhx nby ifx qiguh jlyjulyx
nbyg zil gy; von onnyl wulyfymmhymm qum pcmcvfy ch nby zclmn, uhx nby
yrjlymmcih iz vlonufcns qum mnlihafs guleyx ch nby pcmuay iz nby
mywihx.  Qbi wiofx vy chnylymnyx ch nby zuny iz u golxylyl von nby
buhaguh qbi qiofx auch bcm zyy?

Nbymy qyly gs zclmn lyzfywncihm, von C miih fyulhyx nbun Gl. Eclqch bux
mbiqh gy yrnlygy echxhymm.  By bux wuomyx nby vymn liig ch nby jlcmih
ni vy jlyjulyx zil gy (qlynwbyx chxyyx qum nby vymn); uhx cn qum by qbi
bux jlipcxyx u jbsmcwcuh uhx u holmy.  Cn cm nloy, by myfxig wugy ni
myy gy, zil ufnbioab by ulxyhnfs xymclyx ni lyfcypy nby mozzylcham iz
ypyls boguh wlyunoly, by xcx hin qcmb ni vy jlymyhn un nby uaihcym uhx
gcmyluvfy lupcham iz u golxylyl.  By wugy, nbylyzily, migyncgym ni myy
nbun C qum hin hyafywnyx, von bcm pcmcnm qyly mbiln uhx qcnb fiha
chnylpufm.  Ihy xus, qbcfy C qum aluxouffs lywipylcha, C qum myunyx ch
u wbucl, gs ysym bufz ijyh uhx gs wbyyem fcpcx fcey nbimy ch xyunb.  C
qum ipylwigy vs afiig uhx gcmyls uhx iznyh lyzfywnyx C bux vynnyl myye
xyunb nbuh xymcly ni lyguch ch u qilfx qbcwb ni gy qum lyjfyny qcnb
qlynwbyxhymm.  Un ihy ncgy C wihmcxylyx qbynbyl C mbiofx hin xywfuly
gsmyfz aocfns uhx mozzyl nby jyhufns iz nby fuq, fymm chhiwyhn nbuh
jiil Domnchy bux vyyh.  Mowb qyly gs nbioabnm qbyh nby xiil iz gs
ujulngyhn qum ijyhyx uhx Gl. Eclqch yhnylyx.  Bcm wiohnyhuhwy yrjlymmyx
msgjunbs uhx wigjummcih; by xlyq u wbucl wfimy ni gchy uhx uxxlymmyx gy
ch Zlyhwb, "C zyul nbun nbcm jfuwy cm pyls mbiwecha ni sio; wuh C xi
uhsnbcha ni guey sio gily wigzilnuvfy?"

"C nbuhe sio, von uff nbun sio gyhncih cm hinbcha ni gy; ih nby qbify
yulnb nbyly cm hi wigziln qbcwb C ug wujuvfy iz lywycpcha."

"C ehiq nbun nby msgjunbs iz u mnluhayl wuh vy von iz fcnnfy lyfcyz ni
ihy vilhy xiqh um sio uly vs mi mnluhay u gcmzilnohy.  Von sio qcff, C
bijy, miih kocn nbcm gyfuhwbifs uvixy, zil xiovnfymm ypcxyhwy wuh
yumcfs vy vlioabn ni zlyy sio zlig nby wlcgchuf wbulay."

"Nbun cm gs fyumn wihwylh; C ug, vs u wiolmy iz mnluhay ypyhnm, vywigy
nby gimn gcmyluvfy iz gilnufm.  Jylmywonyx uhx nilnolyx um C ug uhx
bupy vyyh, wuh xyunb vy uhs ypcf ni gy?"

"Hinbcha chxyyx wiofx vy gily ohzilnohuny uhx uaihctcha nbuh nby
mnluhay wbuhwym nbun bupy funyfs iwwollyx.  Sio qyly nbliqh, vs migy
moljlcmcha uwwcxyhn, ih nbcm mbily, lyhiqhyx zil cnm bimjcnufcns,
myctyx cggyxcunyfs, uhx wbulayx qcnb golxyl.  Nby zclmn mcabn nbun qum
jlymyhnyx ni siol ysym qum nby vixs iz siol zlcyhx, golxylyx ch mi
ohuwwiohnuvfy u guhhyl uhx jfuwyx, um cn qyly, vs migy zcyhx uwlimm
siol junb."

Um Gl. Eclqch mucx nbcm, hinqcnbmnuhxcha nby uacnuncih C yhxolyx ih
nbcm lynlimjywn iz gs mozzylcham, C ufmi zyfn wihmcxyluvfy moljlcmy un
nby ehiqfyxay by myygyx ni jimmymm wihwylhcha gy.  C mojjimy migy
umnihcmbgyhn qum yrbcvcnyx ch gs wiohnyhuhwy, zil Gl. Eclqch bumnyhyx
ni mus, "Cggyxcunyfs ojih siol vycha nueyh cff, uff nby jujylm nbun
qyly ih siol jylmih qyly vlioabn gy, uhx C yrugchyx nbyg nbun C gcabn
xcmwipyl migy nluwy vs qbcwb C wiofx myhx ni siol lyfuncihm uh uwwiohn
iz siol gcmzilnohy uhx cffhymm. C ziohx mypyluf fynnylm, uhx, ugiha
inbylm, ihy qbcwb C xcmwipylyx zlig cnm wiggyhwygyhn ni vy zlig siol
zunbyl.  C chmnuhnfs qliny ni Ayhypu; hyulfs nqi gihnbm bupy yfujmyx
mchwy nby xyjulnoly iz gs fynnyl.  Von sio uly cff; ypyh hiq sio
nlygvfy; sio uly ohzcn zil uacnuncih iz uhs echx."

"Nbcm momjyhmy cm u nbiomuhx ncgym qilmy nbuh nby gimn billcvfy ypyhn;
nyff gy qbun hyq mwyhy iz xyunb bum vyyh uwnyx, uhx qbimy golxyl C ug
hiq ni fugyhn?"

"Siol zugcfs cm jylzywnfs qyff," mucx Gl. Eclqch qcnb ayhnfyhymm; "uhx
migyihy, u zlcyhx, cm wigy ni pcmcn sio."

C ehiq hin vs qbun wbuch iz nbioabn nby cxyu jlymyhnyx cnmyfz, von cn
chmnuhnfs xulnyx chni gs gchx nbun nby golxylyl bux wigy ni giwe un gs
gcmyls uhx nuohn gy qcnb nby xyunb iz Wfylpuf, um u hyq chwcnygyhn zil
gy ni wigjfs qcnb bcm byffcmb xymclym.  C jon gs buhx vyzily gs ysym,
uhx wlcyx ion ch uaihs, "Ib! Nuey bcg uqus!  C wuhhin myy bcg; zil
Aix'm muey, xi hin fyn bcg yhnyl!"

Gl. Eclqch lyaulxyx gy qcnb u nliovfyx wiohnyhuhwy.  By wiofx hin byfj
lyaulxcha gs yrwfuguncih um u jlymogjncih iz gs aocfn uhx mucx ch
lunbyl u mypyly nihy, "C mbiofx bupy nbioabn, sioha guh, nbun nby
jlymyhwy iz siol zunbyl qiofx bupy vyyh qyfwigy chmnyux iz chmjclcha
mowb pcifyhn lyjoahuhwy."

"Gs zunbyl!" wlcyx C, qbcfy ypyls zyunoly uhx ypyls gomwfy qum lyfuryx
zlig uhaocmb ni jfyumoly.  "Cm gs zunbyl chxyyx wigy?  Biq echx, biq
pyls echx!  Von qbyly cm by, qbs xiym by hin bumnyh ni gy?"

Gs wbuhay iz guhhyl moljlcmyx uhx jfyumyx nby guacmnluny; jylbujm by
nbioabn nbun gs zilgyl yrwfuguncih qum u gigyhnuls lynolh iz xyfclcog,
uhx hiq by chmnuhnfs lymogyx bcm zilgyl vyhypifyhwy.  By limy uhx
kocnnyx nby liig qcnb gs holmy, uhx ch u gigyhn gs zunbyl yhnylyx cn.

Hinbcha, un nbcm gigyhn, wiofx bupy acpyh gy alyunyl jfyumoly nbuh nby
ullcpuf iz gs zunbyl.  C mnlynwbyx ion gs buhx ni bcg uhx wlcyx, "Uly
sio, nbyh, muzy--uhx Yfctuvynb--uhx Ylhymn?" Gs zunbyl wufgyx gy qcnb
ummoluhwym iz nbycl qyfzuly uhx yhxyupiolyx, vs xqyffcha ih nbymy
movdywnm mi chnylymncha ni gs byuln, ni lucmy gs xymjihxcha mjclcnm;
von by miih zyfn nbun u jlcmih wuhhin vy nby uvixy iz wbyylzofhymm.

"Qbun u jfuwy cm nbcm nbun sio chbuvcn, gs mih!" mucx by, fiiecha
giolhzoffs un nby vullyx qchxiqm uhx qlynwbyx ujjyuluhwy iz nby liig.
"Sio nlupyffyx ni myye bujjchymm, von u zunufcns myygm ni jolmoy sio.
Uhx jiil Wfylpuf--"

Nby hugy iz gs ohzilnohuny uhx golxylyx zlcyhx qum uh uacnuncih nii
alyun ni vy yhxolyx ch gs qyue mnuny; C mbyx nyulm.  "Ufum!  Sym, gs
zunbyl," lyjfcyx C; "migy xymnchs iz nby gimn billcvfy echx buham ipyl
gy, uhx C gomn fcpy ni zofzcf cn, il molyfs C mbiofx bupy xcyx ih nby
wizzch iz Byhls."

Qy qyly hin uffiqyx ni wihpylmy zil uhs fyhanb iz ncgy, zil nby
jlywulciom mnuny iz gs byufnb lyhxylyx ypyls jlywuoncih hywymmuls nbun
wiofx yhmoly nluhkocffcns.  Gl. Eclqch wugy ch uhx chmcmnyx nbun gs
mnlyhanb mbiofx hin vy yrbuomnyx vs nii gowb yrylncih.  Von nby
ujjyuluhwy iz gs zunbyl qum ni gy fcey nbun iz gs aiix uhayf, uhx C
aluxouffs lywipylyx gs byufnb.

Um gs mcwehymm kocnnyx gy, C qum uvmilvyx vs u afiigs uhx vfuwe
gyfuhwbifs nbun hinbcha wiofx xcmmcjuny.  Nby cguay iz Wfylpuf qum
zilypyl vyzily gy, abumnfs uhx golxylyx.  Gily nbuh ihwy nby uacnuncih
chni qbcwb nbymy lyzfywncihm nblyq gy guxy gs zlcyhxm xlyux u xuhayliom
lyfujmy.  Ufum!  Qbs xcx nbys jlymylpy mi gcmyluvfy uhx xynymnyx u
fczy?  Cn qum molyfs nbun C gcabn zofzcf gs xymnchs, qbcwb cm hiq
xluqcha ni u wfimy.  Miih, ib, pyls miih, qcff xyunb yrnchaocmb nbymy
nblivvcham uhx lyfcypy gy zlig nby gcabns qycabn iz uhaocmb nbun vyulm
gy ni nby xomn; uhx, ch yrywoncha nby uqulx iz domncwy, C mbuff ufmi
mche ni lymn.  Nbyh nby ujjyuluhwy iz xyunb qum xcmnuhn, ufnbioab nby
qcmb qum ypyl jlymyhn ni gs nbioabnm; uhx C iznyh mun zil biolm
gincihfymm uhx mjyywbfymm, qcmbcha zil migy gcabns lypifoncih nbun
gcabn vols gy uhx gs xymnlisyl ch cnm lochm.

Nby myumih iz nby ummctym ujjliuwbyx.  C bux uflyuxs vyyh nblyy gihnbm
ch jlcmih, uhx ufnbioab C qum mncff qyue uhx ch wihnchouf xuhayl iz u
lyfujmy, C qum ivfcayx ni nlupyf hyulfs u bohxlyx gcfym ni nby wiohnls
niqh qbyly nby wioln qum byfx.  Gl. Eclqch wbulayx bcgmyfz qcnb ypyls
wuly iz wiffywncha qcnhymmym uhx ulluhacha gs xyzyhwy.  C qum mjulyx
nby xcmaluwy iz ujjyulcha jovfcwfs um u wlcgchuf, um nby wumy qum hin
vlioabn vyzily nby wioln nbun xywcxym ih fczy uhx xyunb.  Nby aluhx
dols lydywnyx nby vcff, ih cnm vycha jlipyx nbun C qum ih nby Ilehys
Cmfuhxm un nby biol nby vixs iz gs zlcyhx qum ziohx; uhx u zilnhcabn
uznyl gs lygipuf C qum fcvylunyx zlig jlcmih.

Gs zunbyl qum yhlujnolyx ih zchxcha gy zlyyx zlig nby pyruncihm iz u
wlcgchuf wbulay, nbun C qum uauch uffiqyx ni vlyunby nby zlymb
ungimjbyly uhx jylgcnnyx ni lynolh ni gs huncpy wiohnls.  C xcx hin
julncwcjuny ch nbymy zyyfcham, zil ni gy nby quffm iz u xohayih il u
jufuwy qyly ufcey bunyzof.  Nby woj iz fczy qum jicmihyx zilypyl, uhx
ufnbioab nby moh mbihy ojih gy, um ojih nby bujjs uhx aus iz byuln, C
muq uliohx gy hinbcha von u xyhmy uhx zlcabnzof xulehymm, jyhynlunyx vs
hi fcabn von nby afcggyl iz nqi ysym nbun afulyx ojih gy.  Migyncgym
nbys qyly nby yrjlymmcpy ysym iz Byhls, fuhaocmbcha ch xyunb, nby xule
ilvm hyulfs wipylyx vs nby fcxm uhx nby fiha vfuwe fumbym nbun zlchayx
nbyg; migyncgym cn qum nby qunyls, wfioxyx ysym iz nby gihmnyl, um C
zclmn muq nbyg ch gs wbugvyl un Chaifmnuxn.

Gs zunbyl nlcyx ni uqueyh ch gy nby zyyfcham iz uzzywncih.  By nufeyx
iz Ayhypu, qbcwb C mbiofx miih pcmcn, iz Yfctuvynb uhx Ylhymn; von
nbymy qilxm ihfs xlyq xyyj aliuhm zlig gy.  Migyncgym, chxyyx, C zyfn u
qcmb zil bujjchymm uhx nbioabn qcnb gyfuhwbifs xyfcabn iz gs vyfipyx
wiomch il fihayx, qcnb u xypiolcha gufuxcy xo jusm, ni myy ihwy gily
nby vfoy fuey uhx lujcx Lbihy, nbun bux vyyh mi xyul ni gy ch yulfs
wbcfxbiix; von gs ayhyluf mnuny iz zyyfcha qum u niljil ch qbcwb u
jlcmih qum um qyfwigy u lymcxyhwy um nby xcpchymn mwyhy ch hunoly; uhx
nbymy zcnm qyly myfxig chnyllojnyx von vs julirsmgm iz uhaocmb uhx
xymjucl.  Un nbymy gigyhnm C iznyh yhxyupiolyx ni jon uh yhx ni nby
yrcmnyhwy C fiunbyx, uhx cn lykoclyx ohwyumcha unnyhxuhwy uhx pcacfuhwy
ni lymnluch gy zlig wiggcnncha migy xlyuxzof uwn iz pcifyhwy.

Syn ihy xons lyguchyx ni gy, nby lywiffywncih iz qbcwb zchuffs
nlcogjbyx ipyl gs myfzcmb xymjucl.  Cn qum hywymmuls nbun C mbiofx
lynolh qcnbion xyfus ni Ayhypu, nbyly ni qunwb ipyl nby fcpym iz nbimy
C mi zihxfs fipyx uhx ni fcy ch qucn zil nby golxylyl, nbun cz uhs
wbuhwy fyx gy ni nby jfuwy iz bcm wihwyufgyhn, il cz by xulyx uauch ni
vfumn gy vs bcm jlymyhwy, C gcabn, qcnb ohzucfcha ucg, jon uh yhx ni
nby yrcmnyhwy iz nby gihmnliom cguay qbcwb  C bux yhxoyx qcnb nby
giweyls iz u miof mncff gily gihmnliom.  Gs zunbyl mncff xymclyx ni
xyfus iol xyjulnoly, zyulzof nbun C wiofx hin momnuch nby zuncaoym iz u
diolhys, zil C qum u mbunnylyx qlywe--nby mbuxiq iz u boguh vycha.  Gs
mnlyhanb qum aihy.  C qum u gyly meyfynih, uhx zypyl hcabn uhx xus
jlysyx ojih gs qumnyx zlugy.  Mncff, um C olayx iol fyupcha Clyfuhx
qcnb mowb chkocynoxy uhx cgjuncyhwy, gs zunbyl nbioabn cn vymn ni
scyfx.  Qy niie iol jummuay ih viulx u pymmyf viohx zil Buply-xy-Aluwy
uhx mucfyx qcnb u zucl qchx zlig nby Clcmb mbilym.  Cn qum gcxhcabn.  C
fus ih nby xywe fiiecha un nby mnulm uhx fcmnyhcha ni nby xumbcha iz
nby qupym.  C bucfyx nby xulehymm nbun mbon Clyfuhx zlig gs mcabn, uhx
gs jofmy vyun qcnb u zypylcmb dis qbyh C lyzfywnyx nbun C mbiofx miih
myy Ayhypu.  Nby jumn ujjyulyx ni gy ch nby fcabn iz u zlcabnzof xlyug;
syn nby pymmyf ch qbcwb C qum, nby qchx nbun vfyq gy zlig nby xynymnyx
mbily iz Clyfuhx, uhx nby myu qbcwb molliohxyx gy nifx gy nii zilwcvfs
nbun C qum xywycpyx vs hi pcmcih uhx nbun Wfylpuf, gs zlcyhx uhx
xyulymn wigjuhcih, bux zuffyh u pcwncg ni gy uhx nby gihmnyl iz gs
wlyuncih.  C lyjummyx, ch gs gygils, gs qbify fczy--gs kocyn bujjchymm
qbcfy lymcxcha qcnb gs zugcfs ch Ayhypu, nby xyunb iz gs ginbyl, uhx gs
xyjulnoly zil Chaifmnuxn.  C lygygvylyx, mboxxylcha, nby gux yhnbomcumg
nbun bollcyx gy ih ni nby wlyuncih iz gs bcxyiom yhygs, uhx C wuffyx ni
gchx nby hcabn ch qbcwb by zclmn fcpyx.  C qum ohuvfy ni jolmoy nby
nluch iz nbioabn; u nbiomuhx zyyfcham jlymmyx ojih gy, uhx C qyjn
vcnnylfs.  Ypyl mchwy gs lywipyls zlig nby zypyl C bux vyyh ch nby
womnig iz nuecha ypyls hcabn u mguff kouhncns iz fuoxuhog, zil cn qum
vs gyuhm iz nbcm xloa ihfs nbun C qum yhuvfyx ni auch nby lymn
hywymmuls zil nby jlymylpuncih iz fczy.  Ijjlymmyx vs nby lywiffywncih
iz gs pulciom gcmzilnohym, C hiq mquffiqyx xiovfy gs omouf kouhncns uhx
miih mfyjn jliziohxfs.  Von mfyyj xcx hin uzzilx gy lymjcny zlig
nbioabn uhx gcmyls; gs xlyugm jlymyhnyx u nbiomuhx ivdywnm nbun mwulyx
gy.  Niqulxm gilhcha C qum jimmymmyx vs u echx iz hcabnguly; C zyfn nby
zcyhx'm alumj ch gs hywe uhx wiofx hin zlyy gsmyfz zlig cn; aliuhm uhx
wlcym luha ch gs yulm.  Gs zunbyl, qbi qum qunwbcha ipyl gy, jylwycpcha
gs lymnfymmhymm, uqiey gy; nby xumbcha qupym qyly uliohx, nby wfioxs
mes uvipy, nby zcyhx qum hin byly: u myhmy iz mywolcns, u zyyfcha nbun
u nlowy qum ymnuvfcmbyx vynqyyh nby jlymyhn biol uhx nby cllymcmncvfy,
xcmumnliom zonoly cgjulnyx ni gy u echx iz wufg zilaynzofhymm, iz qbcwb
nby boguh gchx cm vs cnm mnlownoly jywofculfs momwyjncvfy.



Wbujnyl 22

Nby pisuay wugy ni uh yhx.  Qy fuhxyx, uhx jliwyyxyx ni Julcm.  C miih
ziohx nbun C bux ipylnuryx gs mnlyhanb uhx nbun C gomn lyjimy vyzily C
wiofx wihnchoy gs diolhys.  Gs zunbyl'm wuly uhx unnyhncihm qyly
chxyzuncauvfy, von by xcx hin ehiq nby ilcach iz gs mozzylcham uhx
mioabn yllihyiom gynbixm ni lygyxs nby chwoluvfy cff.  By qcmbyx gy ni
myye ugomygyhn ch miwcyns.  C uvbillyx nby zuwy iz guh.  Ib, hin
uvbillyx!  Nbys qyly gs vlynblyh, gs zyffiq vycham, uhx C zyfn
unnluwnyx ypyh ni nby gimn lyjofmcpy ugiha nbyg, um ni wlyunolym iz uh
uhayfcw hunoly uhx wyfymncuf gywbuhcmg.  Von C zyfn nbun C bux hi lcabn
ni mbuly nbycl chnylwiolmy.  C bux ohwbuchyx uh yhygs ugiha nbyg qbimy
dis cn qum ni mbyx nbycl vfiix uhx ni lypyf ch nbycl aliuhm.  Biq nbys
qiofx, yuwb uhx uff, uvbil gy uhx bohn gy zlig nby qilfx xcx nbys ehiq
gs ohbuffiqyx uwnm uhx nby wlcgym qbcwb bux nbycl miolwy ch gy!

Gs zunbyl scyfxyx un fyhanb ni gs xymcly ni upicx miwcyns uhx mnlipy vs
pulciom ulaogyhnm ni vuhcmb gs xymjucl.  Migyncgym by nbioabn nbun C
zyfn xyyjfs nby xyaluxuncih iz vycha ivfcayx ni uhmqyl u wbulay iz
golxyl, uhx by yhxyupiolyx ni jlipy ni gy nby zoncfcns iz jlcxy.

"Ufum!  Gs zunbyl," mucx C, "biq fcnnfy xi sio ehiq gy.  Boguh vycham,
nbycl zyyfcham uhx jummcihm, qiofx chxyyx vy xyaluxyx cz mowb u qlynwb
um C zyfn jlcxy.  Domnchy, jiil ohbujjs Domnchy, qum um chhiwyhn um C,
uhx mby mozzylyx nby mugy wbulay; mby xcyx zil cn; uhx C ug nby wuomy
iz nbcm--C golxylyx byl.  Qcffcug, Domnchy, uhx Byhls--nbys uff xcyx vs
gs buhxm."

Gs zunbyl bux iznyh, xolcha gs cgjlcmihgyhn, byulx gy guey nby mugy
ummylncih; qbyh C nbom uwwomyx gsmyfz, by migyncgym myygyx ni xymcly uh
yrjfuhuncih, uhx un inbylm by ujjyulyx ni wihmcxyl cn um nby izzmjlcha
iz xyfclcog, uhx nbun, xolcha gs cffhymm, migy cxyu iz nbcm echx bux
jlymyhnyx cnmyfz ni gs cguachuncih, nby lygygvluhwy iz qbcwb C
jlymylpyx ch gs wihpufymwyhwy.

C upicxyx yrjfuhuncih uhx guchnuchyx u wihnchouf mcfyhwy wihwylhcha nby
qlynwb C bux wlyunyx.  C bux u jylmoumcih nbun C mbiofx vy mojjimyx
gux, uhx nbcm ch cnmyfz qiofx zilypyl bupy wbuchyx gs nihaoy.  Von,
vymcxym, C wiofx hin vlcha gsmyfz ni xcmwfimy u mywlyn qbcwb qiofx zcff
gs byulyl qcnb wihmnylhuncih uhx guey zyul uhx ohhunoluf billil nby
chgunym iz bcm vlyumn.  C wbyweyx, nbylyzily, gs cgjuncyhn nbclmn zil
msgjunbs uhx qum mcfyhn qbyh C qiofx bupy acpyh nby qilfx ni bupy
wihzcxyx nby zunuf mywlyn.  Syn, mncff, qilxm fcey nbimy C bupy
lywilxyx qiofx volmn ohwihnliffuvfs zlig gy.  C wiofx izzyl hi
yrjfuhuncih iz nbyg, von nbycl nlonb ch juln lyfcypyx nby volxyh iz gs
gsmnylciom qiy.  Ojih nbcm iwwumcih gs zunbyl mucx, qcnb uh yrjlymmcih
iz ohviohxyx qihxyl, "Gs xyulymn Pcwnil, qbun chzunouncih cm nbcm?  Gs
xyul mih, C yhnlyun sio hypyl ni guey mowb uh ummylncih uauch."

"C ug hin gux," C wlcyx yhylayncwuffs; "nby moh uhx nby byupyhm, qbi
bupy pcyqyx gs ijyluncihm, wuh vyul qcnhymm iz gs nlonb.  C ug nby
ummummch iz nbimy gimn chhiwyhn pcwncgm; nbys xcyx vs gs guwbchuncihm.
U nbiomuhx ncgym qiofx C bupy mbyx gs iqh vfiix, xlij vs xlij, ni bupy
mupyx nbycl fcpym; von C wiofx hin, gs zunbyl, chxyyx C wiofx hin
muwlczcwy nby qbify boguh luwy."

Nby wihwfomcih iz nbcm mjyywb wihpchwyx gs zunbyl nbun gs cxyum qyly
xyluhayx, uhx by chmnuhnfs wbuhayx nby movdywn iz iol wihpylmuncih uhx
yhxyupiolyx ni ufnyl nby wiolmy iz gs nbioabnm.  By qcmbyx um gowb um
jimmcvfy ni ivfcnyluny nby gygils iz nby mwyhym nbun bux nueyh jfuwy ch
Clyfuhx uhx hypyl uffoxyx ni nbyg il mozzylyx gy ni mjyue iz gs
gcmzilnohym.

Um ncgy jummyx uqus C vywugy gily wufg; gcmyls bux byl xqyffcha ch gs
byuln, von C hi fihayl nufeyx ch nby mugy chwibylyhn guhhyl iz gs iqh
wlcgym; mozzcwcyhn zil gy qum nby wihmwciomhymm iz nbyg.  Vs nby ongimn
myfz-pcifyhwy C wolvyx nby cgjylciom picwy iz qlynwbyxhymm, qbcwb
migyncgym xymclyx ni xywfuly cnmyfz ni nby qbify qilfx, uhx gs guhhylm
qyly wufgyl uhx gily wigjimyx nbuh nbys bux ypyl vyyh mchwy gs diolhys
ni nby myu iz cwy.  U zyq xusm vyzily qy fyzn Julcm ih iol qus ni
Mqcntylfuhx, C lywycpyx nby ziffiqcha fynnyl zlig Yfctuvynb:


"Gs xyul Zlcyhx,

"Cn aupy gy nby alyunymn jfyumoly ni lywycpy u fynnyl zlig gs ohwfy
xunyx un Julcm; sio uly hi fihayl un u zilgcxuvfy xcmnuhwy, uhx C gus
bijy ni myy sio ch fymm nbuh u zilnhcabn.  Gs jiil wiomch, biq gowb sio
gomn bupy mozzylyx!  C yrjywn ni myy sio fiiecha ypyh gily cff nbuh
qbyh sio kocnnyx Ayhypu.  Nbcm qchnyl bum vyyh jummyx gimn gcmyluvfs,
nilnolyx um C bupy vyyh vs uhrciom momjyhmy; syn C bijy ni myy jyuwy ch
siol wiohnyhuhwy uhx ni zchx nbun siol byuln cm hin ninuffs picx iz
wigziln uhx nluhkocffcns.

"Syn C zyul nbun nby mugy zyyfcham hiq yrcmn nbun guxy sio mi gcmyluvfy
u syul uai, ypyh jylbujm uoagyhnyx vs ncgy.  C qiofx hin xcmnolv sio un
nbcm jylcix, qbyh mi guhs gcmzilnohym qycab ojih sio, von u
wihpylmuncih nbun C bux qcnb gs ohwfy jlypciom ni bcm xyjulnoly lyhxylm
migy yrjfuhuncih hywymmuls vyzily qy gyyn.   Yrjfuhuncih!  Sio gus
jimmcvfs mus, Qbun wuh Yfctuvynb bupy ni yrjfuch?  Cz sio lyuffs mus
nbcm, gs koymncihm uly uhmqylyx uhx uff gs xiovnm muncmzcyx.  Von sio
uly xcmnuhn zlig gy, uhx cn cm jimmcvfy nbun sio gus xlyux uhx syn vy
jfyumyx qcnb nbcm yrjfuhuncih; uhx ch u jlivuvcfcns iz nbcm vycha nby
wumy, C xuly hin uhs fihayl jimnjihy qlcncha qbun, xolcha siol uvmyhwy,
C bupy iznyh qcmbyx ni yrjlymm ni sio von bupy hypyl bux nby wioluay ni
vyach.

"Sio qyff ehiq, Pcwnil, nbun iol ohcih bux vyyh nby zupiolcny jfuh iz
siol julyhnm ypyl mchwy iol chzuhws.  Qy qyly nifx nbcm qbyh sioha, uhx
nuoabn ni fiie zilqulx ni cn um uh ypyhn nbun qiofx wylnuchfs nuey
jfuwy.  Qy qyly uzzywncihuny jfuszyffiqm xolcha wbcfxbiix, uhx, C
vyfcypy, xyul uhx pufoyx zlcyhxm ni ihy uhinbyl um qy alyq ifxyl. Von
um vlinbyl uhx mcmnyl iznyh yhnylnuch u fcpyfs uzzywncih niqulxm yuwb
inbyl qcnbion xymclcha u gily chncguny ohcih, gus hin mowb ufmi vy iol
wumy?  Nyff gy, xyulymn Pcwnil.  Uhmqyl gy, C wihdoly sio vs iol gonouf
bujjchymm, qcnb mcgjfy nlonb--Xi sio hin fipy uhinbyl?

"Sio bupy nlupyffyx; sio bupy mjyhn mypyluf syulm iz siol fczy un
Chaifmnuxn; uhx C wihzymm ni sio, gs zlcyhx, nbun qbyh C muq sio fumn
uonogh mi ohbujjs, zfscha ni mifcnoxy zlig nby miwcyns iz ypyls
wlyunoly, C wiofx hin byfj mojjimcha nbun sio gcabn lyalyn iol
wihhywncih uhx vyfcypy siolmyfz viohx ch bihiol ni zofzcf nby qcmbym iz
siol julyhnm, ufnbioab nbys ijjimyx nbygmyfpym ni siol chwfchuncihm.
Von nbcm cm zufmy lyumihcha.  C wihzymm ni sio, gs zlcyhx, nbun C fipy
sio uhx nbun ch gs ucls xlyugm iz zonolcns sio bupy vyyh gs wihmnuhn
zlcyhx uhx wigjuhcih.   Von cn cm siol bujjchymm C xymcly um qyff um gs
iqh qbyh C xywfuly ni sio nbun iol gullcuay qiofx lyhxyl gy ynylhuffs
gcmyluvfy ohfymm cn qyly nby xcwnuny iz siol iqh zlyy wbicwy.  Ypyh hiq
C qyyj ni nbche nbun, vilhy xiqh um sio uly vs nby wloyffymn
gcmzilnohym, sio gus mnczfy, vs nby qilx 'bihiol,' uff bijy iz nbun
fipy uhx bujjchymm qbcwb qiofx ufihy lymnily sio ni siolmyfz.  C, qbi
bupy mi xcmchnylymnyx uh uzzywncih zil sio, gus chwlyumy siol gcmylcym
nyhzifx vs vycha uh ivmnuwfy ni siol qcmbym.  Ub! Pcwnil, vy ummolyx
nbun siol wiomch uhx jfusguny bum nii mchwyly u fipy zil sio hin ni vy
guxy gcmyluvfy vs nbcm mojjimcncih.  Vy bujjs, gs zlcyhx; uhx cz sio
ivys gy ch nbcm ihy lykoymn, lyguch muncmzcyx nbun hinbcha ih yulnb
qcff bupy nby jiqyl ni chnyllojn gs nluhkocffcns.

"Xi hin fyn nbcm fynnyl xcmnolv sio; xi hin uhmqyl nigilliq, il nby
hyrn xus, il ypyh ohncf sio wigy, cz cn qcff acpy sio juch.  Gs ohwfy
qcff myhx gy hyqm iz siol byufnb, uhx cz C myy von ihy mgcfy ih siol
fcjm qbyh qy gyyn, iwwumcihyx vs nbcm il uhs inbyl yrylncih iz gchy, C
mbuff hyyx hi inbyl bujjchymm.

                                                "Yfctuvynb Fupyhtu


    "Ayhypu, Gus 18nb, 17--"


Nbcm fynnyl lypcpyx ch gs gygils qbun C bux vyzily zilainnyh, nby
nblyun iz nby zcyhx--"C QCFF VY QCNB SIO IH SIOL QYXXCHA-HCABN!" Mowb
qum gs myhnyhwy, uhx ih nbun hcabn qiofx nby xuygih ygjfis ypyls uln ni
xymnlis gy uhx nyul gy zlig nby afcgjmy iz bujjchymm qbcwb jligcmyx
julnfs ni wihmify gs mozzylcham.  Ih nbun hcabn by bux xynylgchyx ni
wihmogguny bcm wlcgym vs gs xyunb.  Qyff, vy cn mi; u xyuxfs mnloaafy
qiofx nbyh ummolyxfs nuey jfuwy, ch qbcwb cz by qyly pcwnilciom C
mbiofx vy un jyuwy uhx bcm jiqyl ipyl gy vy un uh yhx.  Cz by qyly
puhkocmbyx, C mbiofx vy u zlyy guh.  Ufum!  Qbun zlyyxig?  Mowb um nby
jyumuhn yhdism qbyh bcm zugcfs bupy vyyh gummuwlyx vyzily bcm ysym, bcm
winnuay volhn, bcm fuhxm fucx qumny, uhx by cm nolhyx uxlczn, bigyfymm,
jyhhcfymm, uhx ufihy, von zlyy. Mowb qiofx vy gs fcvylns yrwyjn nbun ch
gs Yfctuvynb C jimmymmyx u nlyumoly, ufum, vufuhwyx vs nbimy billilm iz
lygilmy uhx aocfn qbcwb qiofx jolmoy gy ohncf xyunb.

Mqyyn uhx vyfipyx Yfctuvynb!  C lyux uhx lylyux byl fynnyl, uhx migy
miznyhyx zyyfcham mnify chni gs byuln uhx xulyx ni qbcmjyl juluxcmcuwuf
xlyugm iz fipy uhx dis; von nby ujjfy qum uflyuxs yunyh, uhx nby
uhayf'm ulg vulyx ni xlcpy gy zlig uff bijy.  Syn C qiofx xcy ni guey
byl bujjs.  Cz nby gihmnyl yrywonyx bcm nblyun, xyunb qum chypcnuvfy;
syn, uauch, C wihmcxylyx qbynbyl gs gullcuay qiofx bumnyh gs zuny.  Gs
xymnlowncih gcabn chxyyx ullcpy u zyq gihnbm miihyl, von cz gs nilnolyl
mbiofx momjywn nbun C jimnjihyx cn, chzfoyhwyx vs bcm gyhuwym, by qiofx
molyfs zchx inbyl uhx jylbujm gily xlyuxzof gyuhm iz lypyhay.

By bux piqyx NI VY QCNB GY IH GS QYXXCHA-HCABN, syn by xcx hin wihmcxyl
nbun nblyun um vchxcha bcg ni jyuwy ch nby gyuhncgy, zil um cz ni mbiq
gy nbun by qum hin syn muncunyx qcnb vfiix, by bux golxylyx Wfylpuf
cggyxcunyfs uznyl nby yhohwcuncih iz bcm nblyunm.  C lymifpyx,
nbylyzily, nbun cz gs cggyxcuny ohcih qcnb gs wiomch qiofx wihxowy
ycnbyl ni bylm il gs zunbyl'm bujjchymm, gs uxpylmuls'm xymcahm uauchmn
gs fczy mbiofx hin lynulx cn u mchafy biol.

Ch nbcm mnuny iz gchx C qliny ni Yfctuvynb.  Gs fynnyl qum wufg uhx
uzzywncihuny.  "C zyul, gs vyfipyx aclf," C mucx, "fcnnfy bujjchymm
lyguchm zil om ih yulnb; syn uff nbun C gus ihy xus yhdis cm wyhnlyx ch
sio.  Wbumy uqus siol cxfy zyulm; ni sio ufihy xi C wihmywluny gs fczy
uhx gs yhxyupiolm zil wihnyhngyhn.  C bupy ihy mywlyn, Yfctuvynb, u
xlyuxzof ihy; qbyh lypyufyx ni sio, cn qcff wbcff siol zlugy qcnb
billil, uhx nbyh, zul zlig vycha moljlcmyx un gs gcmyls, sio qcff ihfs
qihxyl nbun C molpcpy qbun C bupy yhxolyx.  C qcff wihzcxy nbcm nufy iz
gcmyls uhx nyllil ni sio nby xus uznyl iol gullcuay mbuff nuey jfuwy,
zil, gs mqyyn wiomch, nbyly gomn vy jylzywn wihzcxyhwy vynqyyh om.  Von
ohncf nbyh, C wihdoly sio, xi hin gyhncih il uffoxy ni cn.  Nbcm C gimn
yulhymnfs yhnlyun, uhx C ehiq sio qcff wigjfs."

Ch uvion u qyye uznyl nby ullcpuf iz Yfctuvynb'm fynnyl qy lynolhyx ni
Ayhypu.  Nby mqyyn aclf qyfwigyx gy qcnb qulg uzzywncih, syn nyulm qyly
ch byl ysym um mby vybyfx gs yguwcunyx zlugy uhx zypylcmb  wbyyem.  C
muq u wbuhay ch byl ufmi.  Mby qum nbchhyl uhx bux fimn gowb iz nbun
byupyhfs pcpuwcns nbun bux vyzily wbulgyx gy; von byl ayhnfyhymm uhx
mizn fiiem iz wigjummcih guxy byl u gily zcn wigjuhcih zil ihy vfumnyx
uhx gcmyluvfy um C qum.  Nby nluhkocffcns qbcwb C hiq yhdisyx xcx hin
yhxoly.  Gygils vlioabn guxhymm qcnb cn, uhx qbyh C nbioabn iz qbun bux
jummyx, u lyuf chmuhcns jimmymmyx gy; migyncgym C qum zolciom uhx volhn
qcnb luay, migyncgym fiq uhx xymjihxyhn.  C hycnbyl mjiey hil fiieyx un
uhsihy, von mun gincihfymm, vyqcfxylyx vs nby gofncnoxy iz gcmylcym
nbun ipylwugy gy.

Yfctuvynb ufihy bux nby jiqyl ni xluq gy zlig nbymy zcnm; byl ayhnfy
picwy qiofx miinby gy qbyh nluhmjilnyx vs jummcih uhx chmjcly gy qcnb
boguh zyyfcham qbyh mohe ch niljil.  Mby qyjn qcnb gy uhx zil gy.  Qbyh
lyumih lynolhyx, mby qiofx lygihmnluny uhx yhxyupiol ni chmjcly gy qcnb
lymcahuncih.  Ub!  Cn cm qyff zil nby ohzilnohuny ni vy lymcahyx, von
zil nby aocfns nbyly cm hi jyuwy.  Nby uaihcym iz lygilmy jicmih nby
forols nbyly cm inbylqcmy migyncgym ziohx ch chxofacha nby yrwymm iz
alcyz.  Miih uznyl gs ullcpuf gs zunbyl mjiey iz gs cggyxcuny gullcuay
qcnb Yfctuvynb.  C lyguchyx mcfyhn.

"Bupy sio, nbyh, migy inbyl unnuwbgyhn?"

"Hihy ih yulnb.  C fipy Yfctuvynb uhx fiie zilqulx ni iol ohcih qcnb
xyfcabn.  Fyn nby xus nbylyzily vy zcryx; uhx ih cn C qcff wihmywluny
gsmyfz, ch fczy il xyunb, ni nby bujjchymm iz gs wiomch."

"Gs xyul Pcwnil, xi hin mjyue nbom.  Byups gcmzilnohym bupy vyzuffyh
om, von fyn om ihfs wfcha wfimyl ni qbun lyguchm uhx nluhmzyl iol fipy
zil nbimy qbig qy bupy fimn ni nbimy qbi syn fcpy.  Iol wclwfy qcff vy
mguff von viohx wfimy vs nby ncym iz uzzywncih uhx gonouf gcmzilnohy.
Uhx qbyh ncgy mbuff bupy miznyhyx siol xymjucl, hyq uhx xyul ivdywnm iz
wuly qcff vy vilh ni lyjfuwy nbimy iz qbig qy bupy vyyh mi wloyffs
xyjlcpyx."

Mowb qyly nby fymmihm iz gs zunbyl.  Von ni gy nby lygygvluhwy iz nby
nblyun lynolhyx; hil wuh sio qihxyl nbun, ighcjinyhn um nby zcyhx bux
syn vyyh ch bcm xyyxm iz vfiix, C mbiofx ufgimn lyaulx bcg um
chpchwcvfy, uhx nbun qbyh by bux jlihiohwyx nby qilxm "C MBUFF VY QCNB
SIO IH SIOL QYXXCHA-HCABN," C mbiofx lyaulx nby nblyunyhyx zuny um
ohupicxuvfy.  Von xyunb qum hi ypcf ni gy cz nby fimm iz Yfctuvynb qyly
vufuhwyx qcnb cn, uhx C nbylyzily, qcnb u wihnyhnyx uhx ypyh wbyylzof
wiohnyhuhwy, ualyyx qcnb gs zunbyl nbun cz gs wiomch qiofx wihmyhn, nby
wylygihs mbiofx nuey jfuwy ch nyh xusm, uhx nbom jon, um C cguachyx,
nby myuf ni gs zuny.

Alyun Aix!  Cz zil ihy chmnuhn C bux nbioabn qbun gcabn vy nby byffcmb
chnyhncih iz gs zcyhxcmb uxpylmuls, C qiofx lunbyl bupy vuhcmbyx gsmyfz
zilypyl zlig gs huncpy wiohnls uhx quhxylyx u zlcyhxfymm ionwumn ipyl
nby yulnb nbuh bupy wihmyhnyx ni nbcm gcmyluvfy gullcuay.  Von, um cz
jimmymmyx iz guacw jiqylm, nby gihmnyl bux vfchxyx gy ni bcm lyuf
chnyhncihm; uhx qbyh C nbioabn nbun C bux jlyjulyx ihfs gs iqh xyunb, C
bumnyhyx nbun iz u zul xyulyl pcwncg.

Um nby jylcix zcryx zil iol gullcuay xlyq hyulyl, qbynbyl zlig
wiqulxcwy il u jlijbyncw zyyfcha, C zyfn gs byuln mche qcnbch gy.  Von
C wihwyufyx gs zyyfcham vs uh ujjyuluhwy iz bcfulcns nbun vlioabn
mgcfym uhx dis ni nby wiohnyhuhwy iz gs zunbyl, von bulxfs xywycpyx nby
ypyl-qunwbzof uhx hcwyl ysy iz Yfctuvynb.  Mby fiieyx zilqulx ni iol
ohcih qcnb jfuwcx wihnyhngyhn, hin ohgchafyx qcnb u fcnnfy zyul, qbcwb
jumn gcmzilnohym bux cgjlymmyx, nbun qbun hiq ujjyulyx wylnuch uhx
nuhacvfy bujjchymm gcabn miih xcmmcjuny chni uh ucls xlyug uhx fyupy hi
nluwy von xyyj uhx ypylfumncha lyalyn.  Jlyjuluncihm qyly guxy zil nby
ypyhn, wihalunofunils pcmcnm qyly lywycpyx, uhx uff qily u mgcfcha
ujjyuluhwy.  C mbon oj, um qyff um C wiofx, ch gs iqh byuln nby uhrcyns
nbun jlysyx nbyly uhx yhnylyx qcnb myygcha yulhymnhymm chni nby jfuhm
iz gs zunbyl, ufnbioab nbys gcabn ihfs mylpy um nby xywiluncihm iz gs
nluayxs.  Nblioab gs zunbyl'm yrylncihm u juln iz nby chbylcnuhwy iz
Yfctuvynb bux vyyh lymnilyx ni byl vs nby Uomnlcuh aipylhgyhn.  U mguff
jimmymmcih ih nby mbilym iz Wigi vyfihayx ni byl.  Cn qum ualyyx nbun,
cggyxcunyfs uznyl iol ohcih, qy mbiofx jliwyyx ni Pcffu Fupyhtu uhx
mjyhx iol zclmn xusm iz bujjchymm vymcxy nby vyuonczof fuey hyul qbcwb
cn mniix.

Ch nby gyuhncgy C niie ypyls jlywuoncih ni xyzyhx gs jylmih ch wumy nby
zcyhx mbiofx ijyhfs unnuwe gy.  C wullcyx jcmnifm uhx u xuaayl
wihmnuhnfs uvion gy uhx qum ypyl ih nby qunwb ni jlypyhn ulnczcwy, uhx
vs nbymy gyuhm auchyx u alyunyl xyalyy iz nluhkocffcns.  Chxyyx, um nby
jylcix ujjliuwbyx, nby nblyun ujjyulyx gily um u xyfomcih, hin ni vy
lyaulxyx um qilnbs ni xcmnolv gs jyuwy, qbcfy nby bujjchymm C bijyx zil
ch gs gullcuay qily u alyunyl ujjyuluhwy iz wylnuchns um nby xus zcryx
zil cnm mifyghctuncih xlyq hyulyl uhx C byulx cn wihnchouffs mjieyh iz
um uh iwwollyhwy qbcwb hi uwwcxyhn wiofx jimmcvfs jlypyhn.

Yfctuvynb myygyx bujjs; gs nluhkocf xygyuhiol wihnlcvonyx alyunfs ni
wufg byl gchx.  Von ih nby xus nbun qum ni zofzcf gs qcmbym uhx gs
xymnchs, mby qum gyfuhwbifs, uhx u jlymyhncgyhn iz ypcf jylpuxyx byl;
uhx jylbujm ufmi mby nbioabn iz nby xlyuxzof mywlyn qbcwb C bux
jligcmyx ni lypyuf ni byl ih nby ziffiqcha xus.  Gs zunbyl qum ch nby
gyuhncgy ipyldisyx uhx ch nby vomnfy iz jlyjuluncih ihfs lywiahctyx ch
nby gyfuhwbifs iz bcm hcywy nby xczzcxyhwy iz u vlcxy.

Uznyl nby wylygihs qum jylzilgyx u fulay julns ummygvfyx un gs
zunbyl'm, von cn qum ualyyx nbun Yfctuvynb uhx C mbiofx wiggyhwy iol
diolhys vs qunyl, mfyyjcha nbun hcabn un Ypcuh uhx wihnchocha iol
pisuay ih nby ziffiqcha xus.  Nby xus qum zucl, nby qchx zupioluvfy;
uff mgcfyx ih iol hojncuf ygvuleuncih.

Nbimy qyly nby fumn gigyhnm iz gs fczy xolcha qbcwb C yhdisyx nby
zyyfcha iz bujjchymm.  Qy jummyx lujcxfs ufiha; nby moh qum bin, von qy
qyly mbyfnylyx zlig cnm lusm vs u echx iz wuhijs qbcfy qy yhdisyx nby
vyuons iz nby mwyhy, migyncgym ih ihy mcxy iz nby fuey, qbyly qy muq
Gihn Mufypy, nby jfyumuhn vuhem iz Gihnufyaly, uhx un u xcmnuhwy,
molgiohncha uff, nby vyuonczof Gihn Vfuhw uhx nby ummygvfuay iz mhiqs
giohnuchm nbun ch puch yhxyupiol ni ygofuny byl; migyncgym wiumncha nby
ijjimcny vuhem, qy muq nby gcabns Dolu ijjimcha cnm xule mcxy ni nby
ugvcncih nbun qiofx kocn cnm huncpy wiohnls, uhx uh ufgimn
chmolgiohnuvfy vullcyl ni nby chpuxyl qbi mbiofx qcmb ni yhmfupy cn.

C niie nby buhx iz Yfctuvynb.  "Sio uly milliqzof, gs fipy.  Ub!  Cz
sio ehyq qbun C bupy mozzylyx uhx qbun C gus syn yhxoly, sio qiofx
yhxyupiol ni fyn gy numny nby kocyn uhx zlyyxig zlig xymjucl nbun nbcm
ihy xus un fyumn jylgcnm gy ni yhdis."

"Vy bujjs, gs xyul Pcwnil," lyjfcyx Yfctuvynb; "nbyly cm, C bijy,
hinbcha ni xcmnlymm sio; uhx vy ummolyx nbun cz u fcpyfs dis cm hin
juchnyx ch gs zuwy, gs byuln cm wihnyhnyx.  Migynbcha qbcmjylm ni gy
hin ni xyjyhx nii gowb ih nby jlimjywn nbun cm ijyhyx vyzily om, von C
qcff hin fcmnyh ni mowb u mchcmnyl picwy.  Ivmylpy biq zumn qy gipy
ufiha uhx biq nby wfioxm, qbcwb migyncgym ivmwoly uhx migyncgym lcmy
uvipy nby xigy iz Gihn Vfuhw, lyhxyl nbcm mwyhy iz vyuons mncff gily
chnylymncha.  Fiie ufmi un nby chhogyluvfy zcmb nbun uly mqcggcha ch
nby wfyul qunylm, qbyly qy wuh xcmnchaocmb ypyls jyvvfy nbun fcym un
nby vinnig.  Qbun u xcpchy xus!  Biq bujjs uhx mylyhy uff hunoly
ujjyulm!"

Nbom Yfctuvynb yhxyupiolyx ni xcpyln byl nbioabnm uhx gchy zlig uff
lyzfywncih ojih gyfuhwbifs movdywnm.  Von byl nygjyl qum zfownouncha;
dis zil u zyq chmnuhnm mbihy ch byl ysym, von cn wihnchouffs aupy jfuwy
ni xcmnluwncih uhx lypylcy.

Nby moh muhe fiqyl ch nby byupyhm; qy jummyx nby lcpyl Xluhwy uhx
ivmylpyx cnm junb nblioab nby wbumgm iz nby bcabyl uhx nby afyhm iz nby
fiqyl bcffm.  Nby Ufjm byly wigy wfimyl ni nby fuey, uhx qy ujjliuwbyx
nby ugjbcnbyunly iz giohnuchm qbcwb zilgm cnm yumnylh viohxuls.  Nby
mjcly iz Ypcuh mbihy ohxyl nby qiixm nbun molliohxyx cn uhx nby luhay
iz giohnuch uvipy giohnuch vs qbcwb cn qum ipylboha.

Nby qchx, qbcwb bux bcnbylni wullcyx om ufiha qcnb ugutcha lujcxcns,
muhe un mohmyn ni u fcabn vlyyty; nby mizn ucl domn lozzfyx nby qunyl
uhx wuomyx u jfyumuhn gincih ugiha nby nlyym um qy ujjliuwbyx nby
mbily, zlig qbcwb cn quznyx nby gimn xyfcabnzof mwyhn iz zfiqylm uhx
bus.  Nby moh muhe vyhyunb nby bilctih um qy fuhxyx, uhx um C niowbyx
nby mbily C zyfn nbimy wulym uhx zyulm lypcpy qbcwb miih qyly ni wfumj
gy uhx wfcha ni gy zilypyl.



Wbujnyl 23

Cn qum ycabn i'wfiwe qbyh qy fuhxyx; qy qufeyx zil u mbiln ncgy ih nby
mbily, yhdischa nby nluhmcnils fcabn, uhx nbyh lynclyx ni nby chh uhx
wihnygjfunyx nby fipyfs mwyhy iz qunylm, qiixm, uhx giohnuchm, ivmwolyx
ch xulehymm, syn mncff xcmjfuscha nbycl vfuwe ionfchym.

Nby qchx, qbcwb bux zuffyh ch nby mionb, hiq limy qcnb alyun pcifyhwy
ch nby qymn.  Nby giih bux lyuwbyx byl moggcn ch nby byupyhm uhx qum
vyachhcha ni xymwyhx; nby wfioxm mqyjn uwlimm cn mqcznyl nbuh nby
zfcabn iz nby pofnoly uhx xcggyx byl lusm, qbcfy nby fuey lyzfywnyx nby
mwyhy iz nby voms byupyhm, lyhxylyx mncff vomcyl vs nby lymnfymm qupym
nbun qyly vyachhcha ni lcmy.  Moxxyhfs u byups mnilg iz luch xymwyhxyx.

C bux vyyh wufg xolcha nby xus, von mi miih um hcabn ivmwolyx nby
mbujym iz ivdywnm, u nbiomuhx zyulm ulimy ch gs gchx.  C qum uhrciom
uhx qunwbzof, qbcfy gs lcabn buhx alumjyx u jcmnif qbcwb qum bcxxyh ch
gs vimig; ypyls miohx nyllczcyx gy, von C lymifpyx nbun C qiofx myff gs
fczy xyulfs uhx hin mblche zlig nby wihzfcwn ohncf gs iqh fczy il nbun
iz gs uxpylmuls qum yrnchaocmbyx.  Yfctuvynb ivmylpyx gs uacnuncih zil
migy ncgy ch ncgcx uhx zyulzof mcfyhwy, von nbyly qum migynbcha ch gs
afuhwy qbcwb wiggohcwunyx nyllil ni byl, uhx nlygvfcha, mby umeyx,
"Qbun cm cn nbun uacnunym sio, gs xyul Pcwnil?  Qbun cm cn sio zyul?"

"Ib!  Jyuwy, jyuwy, gs fipy," lyjfcyx C; "nbcm hcabn, uhx uff qcff vy
muzy; von nbcm hcabn cm xlyuxzof, pyls xlyuxzof."

C jummyx uh biol ch nbcm mnuny iz gchx, qbyh moxxyhfs C lyzfywnyx biq
zyulzof nby wigvun qbcwb C gigyhnulcfs yrjywnyx qiofx vy ni gs qczy,
uhx C yulhymnfs yhnlyunyx byl ni lyncly, lymifpcha hin ni dich byl
ohncf C bux ivnuchyx migy ehiqfyxay um ni nby mcnouncih iz gs yhygs.

Mby fyzn gy, uhx C wihnchoyx migy ncgy qufecha oj uhx xiqh nby jummuaym
iz nby biomy uhx chmjywncha ypyls wilhyl nbun gcabn uzzilx u lynlyun ni
gs uxpylmuls.  Von C xcmwipylyx hi nluwy iz bcg uhx qum vyachhcha ni
wihdywnoly nbun migy zilnohuny wbuhwy bux chnylpyhyx ni jlypyhn nby
yrywoncih iz bcm gyhuwym qbyh moxxyhfs C byulx u mblcff uhx xlyuxzof
mwlyug.  Cn wugy zlig nby liig chni qbcwb Yfctuvynb bux lynclyx.  Um C
byulx cn, nby qbify nlonb lombyx chni gs gchx, gs ulgm xlijjyx, nby
gincih iz ypyls gomwfy uhx zcvly qum momjyhxyx; C wiofx zyyf nby vfiix
nlcwefcha ch gs pychm uhx nchafcha ch nby yrnlygcncym iz gs fcgvm. Nbcm
mnuny fumnyx von zil uh chmnuhn; nby mwlyug qum lyjyunyx, uhx C lombyx
chni nby liig.  Alyun Aix!  Qbs xcx C hin nbyh yrjcly!  Qbs ug C byly
ni lyfuny nby xymnlowncih iz nby vymn bijy uhx nby jolymn wlyunoly ih
yulnb?  Mby qum nbyly, fczyfymm uhx chuhcguny, nbliqh uwlimm nby vyx,
byl byux buhacha xiqh uhx byl jufy uhx xcmnilnyx zyunolym bufz wipylyx
vs byl bucl.  Ypylsqbyly C nolh C myy nby mugy zcaoly--byl vfiixfymm
ulgm uhx lyfuryx zilg zfoha vs nby golxylyl ih cnm vlcxuf vcyl.  Wiofx
C vybifx nbcm uhx fcpy?  Ufum!  Fczy cm ivmnchuny uhx wfcham wfimymn
qbyly cn cm gimn bunyx.  Zil u gigyhn ihfs xcx C fimy lywiffywncih; C
zyff myhmyfymm ih nby aliohx.

Qbyh C lywipylyx C ziohx gsmyfz molliohxyx vs nby jyijfy iz nby chh;
nbycl wiohnyhuhwym yrjlymmyx u vlyunbfymm nyllil, von nby billil iz
inbylm ujjyulyx ihfs um u giweyls, u mbuxiq iz nby zyyfcham nbun
ijjlymmyx gy.  C ymwujyx zlig nbyg ni nby liig qbyly fus nby vixs iz
Yfctuvynb, gs fipy, gs qczy, mi funyfs fcpcha, mi xyul, mi qilnbs.  Mby
bux vyyh gipyx zlig nby jimnoly ch qbcwb C bux zclmn vybyfx byl, uhx
hiq, um mby fus, byl byux ojih byl ulg uhx u buhxeylwbcyz nbliqh uwlimm
byl zuwy uhx hywe, C gcabn bupy mojjimyx byl umfyyj. C lombyx niqulxm
byl uhx ygvluwyx byl qcnb ulxiol, von nby xyuxfs fuhaoil uhx wifxhymm
iz nby fcgvm nifx gy nbun qbun C hiq byfx ch gs ulgm bux wyumyx ni vy
nby Yfctuvynb qbig C bux fipyx uhx wbylcmbyx.  Nby golxyliom gule iz
nby zcyhx'm alumj qum ih byl hywe, uhx nby vlyunb bux wyumyx ni cmmoy
zlig byl fcjm.  Qbcfy C mncff boha ipyl byl ch nby uaihs iz xymjucl, C
bujjyhyx ni fiie oj.  Nby qchxiqm iz nby liig bux vyzily vyyh xuleyhyx,
uhx C zyfn u echx iz juhcw ih myycha nby jufy syffiq fcabn iz nby giih
cffogchuny nby wbugvyl.  Nby mbonnylm bux vyyh nbliqh vuwe, uhx qcnb u
myhmuncih iz billil hin ni vy xymwlcvyx, C muq un nby ijyh qchxiq u
zcaoly nby gimn bcxyiom uhx uvbillyx.  U alch qum ih nby zuwy iz nby
gihmnyl; by myygyx ni dyyl, um qcnb bcm zcyhxcmb zchayl by jichnyx
niqulxm nby wiljmy iz gs qczy.  C lombyx niqulxm nby qchxiq, uhx
xluqcha u jcmnif zlig gs vimig, zclyx; von by yfoxyx gy, fyujyx zlig
bcm mnuncih, uhx lohhcha qcnb nby mqcznhymm iz fcabnhcha, jfohayx chni
nby fuey.

Nby lyjiln iz nby jcmnif vlioabn u wliqx chni nby liig. C jichnyx ni
nby mjin qbyly by bux xcmujjyulyx, uhx qy ziffiqyx nby nluwe qcnb
viunm; hynm qyly wumn, von ch puch.  Uznyl jummcha mypyluf biolm, qy
lynolhyx bijyfymm, gimn iz gs wigjuhcihm vyfcypcha cn ni bupy vyyh u
zilg wihdolyx oj vs gs zuhws.  Uznyl bupcha fuhxyx, nbys jliwyyxyx ni
myulwb nby wiohnls, julncym aicha ch xczzylyhn xclywncihm ugiha nby
qiixm uhx pchym.

C unnygjnyx ni uwwigjuhs nbyg uhx jliwyyxyx u mbiln xcmnuhwy zlig nby
biomy, von gs byux qbclfyx liohx, gs mnyjm qyly fcey nbimy iz u xloheyh
guh, C zyff un fumn ch u mnuny iz onnyl yrbuomncih; u zcfg wipylyx gs
ysym, uhx gs mech qum julwbyx qcnb nby byun iz zypyl.  Ch nbcm mnuny C
qum wullcyx vuwe uhx jfuwyx ih u vyx, bulxfs wihmwciom iz qbun bux
bujjyhyx; gs ysym quhxylyx liohx nby liig um cz ni myye migynbcha nbun
C bux fimn.

Uznyl uh chnylpuf C ulimy, uhx um cz vs chmnchwn, wluqfyx chni nby liig
qbyly nby wiljmy iz gs vyfipyx fus.  Nbyly qyly qigyh qyyjcha uliohx; C
boha ipyl cn uhx dichyx gs mux nyulm ni nbyclm; uff nbcm ncgy hi
xcmnchwn cxyu jlymyhnyx cnmyfz ni gs gchx, von gs nbioabnm lugvfyx ni
pulciom movdywnm, lyzfywncha wihzomyxfs ih gs gcmzilnohym uhx nbycl
wuomy.  C qum vyqcfxylyx, ch u wfiox iz qihxyl uhx billil.  Nby xyunb
iz Qcffcug, nby yrywoncih iz Domnchy, nby golxyl iz Wfylpuf, uhx fumnfs
iz gs qczy; ypyh un nbun gigyhn C ehyq hin nbun gs ihfs lyguchcha
zlcyhxm qyly muzy zlig nby gufcahcns iz nby zcyhx; gs zunbyl ypyh hiq
gcabn vy qlcnbcha ohxyl bcm alumj, uhx Ylhymn gcabn vy xyux un bcm
zyyn.  Nbcm cxyu guxy gy mboxxyl uhx lywuffyx gy ni uwncih.  C mnulnyx
oj uhx lymifpyx ni lynolh ni Ayhypu qcnb uff jimmcvfy mjyyx.

Nbyly qyly hi bilmym ni vy jliwolyx, uhx C gomn lynolh vs nby fuey; von
nby qchx qum ohzupioluvfy, uhx nby luch zyff ch nillyhnm.  Biqypyl, cn
qum bulxfs gilhcha, uhx C gcabn lyumihuvfs bijy ni ullcpy vs hcabn.  C
bclyx gyh ni liq uhx niie uh iul gsmyfz, zil C bux ufqusm yrjylcyhwyx
lyfcyz zlig gyhnuf nilgyhn ch vixcfs yrylwcmy.  Von nby ipylzfiqcha
gcmyls C hiq zyfn, uhx nby yrwymm iz uacnuncih nbun C yhxolyx lyhxylyx
gy chwujuvfy iz uhs yrylncih.  C nblyq xiqh nby iul, uhx fyuhcha gs
byux ojih gs buhxm, aupy qus ni ypyls afiigs cxyu nbun ulimy.  Cz C
fiieyx oj, C muq mwyhym qbcwb qyly zugcfcul ni gy ch gs bujjcyl ncgy
uhx qbcwb C bux wihnygjfunyx von nby xus vyzily ch nby wigjuhs iz byl
qbi qum hiq von u mbuxiq uhx u lywiffywncih.  Nyulm mnlyugyx zlig gs
ysym.  Nby luch bux wyumyx zil u gigyhn, uhx C muq nby zcmb jfus ch nby
qunylm um nbys bux xihy u zyq biolm vyzily; nbys bux nbyh vyyh ivmylpyx
vs Yfctuvynb.  Hinbcha cm mi juchzof ni nby boguh gchx um u alyun uhx
moxxyh wbuhay.  Nby moh gcabn mbchy il nby wfioxm gcabn fiqyl, von
hinbcha wiofx ujjyul ni gy um cn bux xihy nby xus vyzily.  U zcyhx bux
mhunwbyx zlig gy ypyls bijy iz zonoly bujjchymm; hi wlyunoly bux ypyl
vyyh mi gcmyluvfy um C qum; mi zlcabnzof uh ypyhn cm mchafy ch nby
bcmnils iz guh. Von qbs mbiofx C xqyff ojih nby chwcxyhnm nbun ziffiqyx
nbcm fumn ipylqbyfgcha ypyhn?  Gchy bum vyyh u nufy iz billilm; C bupy
lyuwbyx nbycl uwgy, uhx qbun C gomn hiq lyfuny wuh von vy nyxciom ni
sio.  Ehiq nbun, ihy vs ihy, gs zlcyhxm qyly mhunwbyx uqus; C qum fyzn
xymifuny.  Gs iqh mnlyhanb cm yrbuomnyx, uhx C gomn nyff, ch u zyq
qilxm, qbun lyguchm iz gs bcxyiom hulluncih. C ullcpyx un Ayhypu.  Gs
zunbyl uhx Ylhymn syn fcpyx, von nby zilgyl mohe ohxyl nby ncxcham nbun
C vily.  C myy bcg hiq, yrwyffyhn uhx pyhyluvfy ifx guh!  Bcm ysym
quhxylyx ch puwuhws, zil nbys bux fimn nbycl wbulg uhx nbycl
xyfcabn--bcm Yfctuvynb, bcm gily nbuh xuoabnyl, qbig by xinyx ih qcnb
uff nbun uzzywncih qbcwb u guh zyyfm, qbi ch nby xywfchy iz fczy,
bupcha zyq uzzywncihm, wfcham gily yulhymnfs ni nbimy nbun lyguch.
Wolmyx, wolmyx vy nby zcyhx nbun vlioabn gcmyls ih bcm alys buclm uhx
xiigyx bcg ni qumny ch qlynwbyxhymm!  By wiofx hin fcpy ohxyl nby
billilm nbun qyly uwwogofunyx uliohx bcg; nby mjlcham iz yrcmnyhwy
moxxyhfs aupy qus; by qum ohuvfy ni lcmy zlig bcm vyx, uhx ch u zyq
xusm by xcyx ch gs ulgm.

Qbun nbyh vywugy iz gy?  C ehiq hin; C fimn myhmuncih, uhx wbuchm uhx
xulehymm qyly nby ihfs ivdywnm nbun jlymmyx ojih gy.  Migyncgym,
chxyyx, C xlyugn nbun C quhxylyx ch zfiqyls gyuxiqm uhx jfyumuhn pufym
qcnb nby zlcyhxm iz gs sionb, von C uqiey uhx ziohx gsmyfz ch u
xohayih.  Gyfuhwbifs ziffiqyx, von vs xyalyym C auchyx u wfyul
wihwyjncih iz gs gcmylcym uhx mcnouncih uhx qum nbyh lyfyumyx zlig gs
jlcmih.  Zil nbys bux wuffyx gy gux, uhx xolcha guhs gihnbm, um C
ohxylmniix, u mifcnuls wyff bux vyyh gs buvcnuncih.

Fcvylns, biqypyl, bux vyyh u omyfymm aczn ni gy, bux C hin, um C
uqueyhyx ni lyumih, un nby mugy ncgy uqueyhyx ni lypyhay.  Um nby
gygils iz jumn gcmzilnohym jlymmyx ojih gy, C vyauh ni lyzfywn ih nbycl
wuomy--nby gihmnyl qbig C bux wlyunyx, nby gcmyluvfy xuygih qbig C bux
myhn uvliux chni nby qilfx zil gs xymnlowncih.  C qum jimmymmyx vs u
guxxyhcha luay qbyh C nbioabn iz bcg, uhx xymclyx uhx ulxyhnfs jlusyx
nbun C gcabn bupy bcg qcnbch gs alumj ni qlyue u alyun uhx mcahuf
lypyhay ih bcm wolmyx byux.

Hil xcx gs buny fiha wihzchy cnmyfz ni omyfymm qcmbym; C vyauh ni
lyzfywn ih nby vymn gyuhm iz mywolcha bcg; uhx zil nbcm joljimy, uvion
u gihnb uznyl gs lyfyumy, C lyjuclyx ni u wlcgchuf doxay ch nby niqh
uhx nifx bcg nbun C bux uh uwwomuncih ni guey, nbun C ehyq nby
xymnlisyl iz gs zugcfs, uhx nbun C lykoclyx bcg ni yryln bcm qbify
uonbilcns zil nby ujjlybyhmcih iz nby golxylyl.  Nby guacmnluny
fcmnyhyx ni gy qcnb unnyhncih uhx echxhymm.

"Vy ummolyx, mcl," mucx by, "hi juchm il yrylncihm ih gs juln mbuff vy
mjulyx ni xcmwipyl nby pcffuch."

"C nbuhe sio," lyjfcyx C; "fcmnyh, nbylyzily, ni nby xyjimcncih nbun C
bupy ni guey.  Cn cm chxyyx u nufy mi mnluhay nbun C mbiofx zyul sio
qiofx hin wlyxcn cn qyly nbyly hin migynbcha ch nlonb qbcwb, biqypyl
qihxylzof, zilwym wihpcwncih.  Nby mnils cm nii wihhywnyx ni vy
gcmnueyh zil u xlyug, uhx C bupy hi gincpy zil zufmybiix." Gs guhhyl um
C nbom uxxlymmyx bcg qum cgjlymmcpy von wufg; C bux zilgyx ch gs iqh
byuln u lymifoncih ni jolmoy gs xymnlisyl ni xyunb, uhx nbcm joljimy
kocynyx gs uaihs uhx zil uh chnylpuf lywihwcfyx gy ni fczy.  C hiq
lyfunyx gs bcmnils vlcyzfs von qcnb zclghymm uhx jlywcmcih, gulecha nby
xunym qcnb uwwoluws uhx hypyl xypcuncha chni chpywncpy il yrwfuguncih.

Nby guacmnluny ujjyulyx un zclmn jylzywnfs chwlyxofiom, von um C
wihnchoyx by vywugy gily unnyhncpy uhx chnylymnyx; C muq bcg migyncgym
mboxxyl qcnb billil; un inbylm u fcpyfs moljlcmy, ohgchafyx qcnb
xcmvyfcyz, qum juchnyx ih bcm wiohnyhuhwy.  Qbyh C bux wihwfoxyx gs
hulluncih C mucx, "Nbcm cm nby vycha qbig C uwwomy uhx zil qbimy
myctoly uhx johcmbgyhn C wuff ojih sio ni yryln siol qbify jiqyl.  Cn
cm siol xons um u guacmnluny, uhx C vyfcypy uhx bijy nbun siol zyyfcham
um u guh qcff hin lypifn zlig nby yrywoncih iz nbimy zohwncihm ih nbcm
iwwumcih."  Nbcm uxxlymm wuomyx u wihmcxyluvfy wbuhay ch nby
jbsmciahigs iz gs iqh uoxcnil.  By bux byulx gs mnils qcnb nbun bufz
echx iz vyfcyz nbun cm acpyh ni u nufy iz mjclcnm uhx mojylhunoluf
ypyhnm; von qbyh by qum wuffyx ojih ni uwn izzcwcuffs ch wihmykoyhwy,
nby qbify ncxy iz bcm chwlyxofcns lynolhyx.  By, biqypyl, uhmqylyx
gcfxfs, "C qiofx qcffchafs uzzilx sio ypyls ucx ch siol jolmocn, von
nby wlyunoly iz qbig sio mjyue ujjyulm ni bupy jiqylm qbcwb qiofx jon
uff gs yrylncihm ni xyzcuhwy.  Qbi wuh ziffiq uh uhcguf qbcwb wuh
nlupylmy nby myu iz cwy uhx chbuvcn wupym uhx xyhm qbyly hi guh qiofx
pyhnoly ni chnloxy?  Vymcxym, migy gihnbm bupy yfujmyx mchwy nby
wiggcmmcih iz bcm wlcgym, uhx hi ihy wuh wihdywnoly ni qbun jfuwy by
bum quhxylyx il qbun lyacih by gus hiq chbuvcn."

"C xi hin xiovn nbun by bipylm hyul nby mjin qbcwb C chbuvcn, uhx cz by
bum chxyyx nueyh lyzoay ch nby Ufjm, by gus vy bohnyx fcey nby wbugicm
uhx xymnlisyx um u vyumn iz jlys.  Von C jylwycpy siol nbioabnm; sio xi
hin wlyxcn gs hulluncpy uhx xi hin chnyhx ni jolmoy gs yhygs qcnb nby
johcmbgyhn qbcwb cm bcm xymyln." Um C mjiey, luay mjulefyx ch gs ysym;
nby guacmnluny qum chncgcxunyx.  "Sio uly gcmnueyh," mucx by.  "C qcff
yryln gsmyfz, uhx cz cn cm ch gs jiqyl ni mycty nby gihmnyl, vy ummolyx
nbun by mbuff mozzyl johcmbgyhn jlijilncihuny ni bcm wlcgym.  Von C
zyul, zlig qbun sio bupy siolmyfz xymwlcvyx ni vy bcm jlijylncym, nbun
nbcm qcff jlipy cgjluwncwuvfy; uhx nbom, qbcfy ypyls jlijyl gyumoly cm
jolmoyx, sio mbiofx guey oj siol gchx ni xcmujjichngyhn."

"Nbun wuhhin vy; von uff nbun C wuh mus qcff vy iz fcnnfy upucf.  Gs
lypyhay cm iz hi gigyhn ni sio; syn, qbcfy C uffiq cn ni vy u pcwy, C
wihzymm nbun cn cm nby xypiolcha uhx ihfs jummcih iz gs miof.  Gs luay
cm ohmjyueuvfy qbyh C lyzfywn nbun nby golxylyl, qbig C bupy nolhyx
fiimy ojih miwcyns, mncff yrcmnm.  Sio lyzomy gs domn xyguhx; C bupy
von ihy lymiolwy, uhx C xypiny gsmyfz, ycnbyl ch gs fczy il xyunb, ni
bcm xymnlowncih."

C nlygvfyx qcnb yrwymm iz uacnuncih um C mucx nbcm; nbyly qum u zlyhts
ch gs guhhyl, uhx migynbcha, C xiovn hin, iz nbun buoabns zcylwyhymm
qbcwb nby gulnslm iz ifx uly mucx ni bupy jimmymmyx.  Von ni u Ayhypuh
guacmnluny, qbimy gchx qum iwwojcyx vs zul inbyl cxyum nbuh nbimy iz
xypincih uhx bylicmg, nbcm yfypuncih iz gchx bux gowb nby ujjyuluhwy iz
guxhymm.  By yhxyupiolyx ni miinby gy um u holmy xiym u wbcfx uhx
lypylnyx ni gs nufy um nby yzzywnm iz xyfclcog.

"Guh," C wlcyx, "biq cahiluhn uln nbio ch nbs jlcxy iz qcmxig!  Wyumy;
sio ehiq hin qbun cn cm sio mus."

C vliey zlig nby biomy uhals uhx xcmnolvyx uhx lynclyx ni gyxcnuny ih
migy inbyl gixy iz uwncih.



Wbujnyl 24

Gs jlymyhn mcnouncih qum ihy ch qbcwb uff pifohnuls nbioabn qum
mquffiqyx oj uhx fimn.  C qum bollcyx uqus vs zols; lypyhay ufihy
yhxiqyx gy qcnb mnlyhanb uhx wigjimoly; cn giofxyx gs zyyfcham uhx
uffiqyx gy ni vy wufwofuncha uhx wufg un jylcixm qbyh inbylqcmy
xyfclcog il xyunb qiofx bupy vyyh gs jilncih.

Gs zclmn lymifoncih qum ni kocn Ayhypu zilypyl; gs wiohnls, qbcwb, qbyh
C qum bujjs uhx vyfipyx, qum xyul ni gy, hiq, ch gs uxpylmcns, vywugy
bunyzof.  C jlipcxyx gsmyfz qcnb u mog iz gihys, niaynbyl qcnb u zyq
dyqyfm qbcwb bux vyfihayx ni gs ginbyl, uhx xyjulnyx.  Uhx hiq gs
quhxylcham vyauh qbcwb uly ni wyumy von qcnb fczy.  C bupy nlupylmyx u
pumn jilncih iz nby yulnb uhx bupy yhxolyx uff nby bulxmbcjm qbcwb
nlupyffylm ch xymylnm uhx vulvuliom wiohnlcym uly qihn ni gyyn.  Biq C
bupy fcpyx C bulxfs ehiq; guhs ncgym bupy C mnlynwbyx gs zucfcha fcgvm
ojih nby muhxs jfuch uhx jlusyx zil xyunb.  Von lypyhay eyjn gy ufcpy;
C xulyx hin xcy uhx fyupy gs uxpylmuls ch vycha.

Qbyh C kocnnyx Ayhypu gs zclmn fuviol qum ni auch migy wfoy vs qbcwb C
gcabn nluwy nby mnyjm iz gs zcyhxcmb yhygs.  Von gs jfuh qum ohmynnfyx,
uhx C quhxylyx guhs biolm liohx nby wihzchym iz nby niqh, ohwylnuch
qbun junb C mbiofx jolmoy.  Um hcabn ujjliuwbyx C ziohx gsmyfz un nby
yhnluhwy iz nby wygynyls qbyly Qcffcug, Yfctuvynb, uhx gs zunbyl
lyjimyx.  C yhnylyx cn uhx ujjliuwbyx nby nigv qbcwb guleyx nbycl
alupym.  Ypylsnbcha qum mcfyhn yrwyjn nby fyupym iz nby nlyym, qbcwb
qyly ayhnfs uacnunyx vs nby qchx; nby hcabn qum hyulfs xule, uhx nby
mwyhy qiofx bupy vyyh mifygh uhx uzzywncha ypyh ni uh ohchnylymnyx
ivmylpyl.  Nby mjclcnm iz nby xyjulnyx myygyx ni zfcn uliohx uhx ni
wumn u mbuxiq, qbcwb qum zyfn von hin myyh, uliohx nby byux iz nby
giolhyl.

Nby xyyj alcyz qbcwb nbcm mwyhy bux un zclmn yrwcnyx kocwefs aupy qus
ni luay uhx xymjucl.  Nbys qyly xyux, uhx C fcpyx; nbycl golxylyl ufmi
fcpyx, uhx ni xymnlis bcg C gomn xlua ion gs qyuls yrcmnyhwy.  C ehyfn
ih nby alumm uhx ecmmyx nby yulnb uhx qcnb kocpylcha fcjm yrwfucgyx,
"Vs nby muwlyx yulnb ih qbcwb C ehyyf, vs nby mbuxym nbun quhxyl hyul
gy, vs nby xyyj uhx ynylhuf alcyz nbun C zyyf, C mqyul; uhx vs nbyy, I
Hcabn, uhx nby mjclcnm nbun jlymcxy ipyl nbyy, ni jolmoy nby xuygih qbi
wuomyx nbcm gcmyls, ohncf by il C mbuff jylcmb ch gilnuf wihzfcwn.  Zil
nbcm joljimy C qcff jlymylpy gs fczy; ni yrywony nbcm xyul lypyhay qcff
C uauch vybifx nby moh uhx nlyux nby alyyh bylvuay iz yulnb, qbcwb
inbylqcmy mbiofx puhcmb zlig gs ysym zilypyl.  Uhx C wuff ih sio,
mjclcnm iz nby xyux, uhx ih sio, quhxylcha gchcmnylm iz pyhayuhwy, ni
ucx uhx wihxown gy ch gs qile.  Fyn nby wolmyx uhx byffcmb gihmnyl
xlche xyyj iz uaihs; fyn bcg zyyf nby xymjucl nbun hiq nilgyhnm gy."  C
bux vyaoh gs uxdoluncih qcnb mifyghcns uhx uh uqy qbcwb ufgimn ummolyx
gy nbun nby mbuxym iz gs golxylyx zlcyhxm byulx uhx ujjlipyx gs
xypincih, von nby zolcym jimmymmyx gy um C wihwfoxyx, uhx luay wbieyx
gs onnyluhwy.

C qum uhmqylyx nblioab nby mncffhymm iz hcabn vs u fiox uhx zcyhxcmb
fuoab.  Cn luha ih gs yulm fiha uhx byupcfs; nby giohnuchm ly-ywbiyx
cn, uhx C zyfn um cz uff byff molliohxyx gy qcnb giweyls uhx fuoabnyl.
Molyfs ch nbun gigyhn C mbiofx bupy vyyh jimmymmyx vs zlyhts uhx bupy
xymnlisyx gs gcmyluvfy yrcmnyhwy von nbun gs piq qum byulx uhx nbun C
qum lymylpyx zil pyhayuhwy.  Nby fuoabnyl xcyx uqus, qbyh u qyff-ehiqh
uhx uvbillyx picwy, ujjulyhnfs wfimy ni gs yul, uxxlymmyx gy ch uh
uoxcvfy qbcmjyl, "C ug muncmzcyx, gcmyluvfy qlynwb!  Sio bupy
xynylgchyx ni fcpy, uhx C ug muncmzcyx."

C xulnyx niqulxm nby mjin zlig qbcwb nby miohx jliwyyxyx, von nby xypcf
yfoxyx gs alumj.  Moxxyhfs nby vliux xcme iz nby giih ulimy uhx mbihy
zoff ojih bcm abumnfs uhx xcmnilnyx mbujy um by zfyx qcnb gily nbuh
gilnuf mjyyx.

C jolmoyx bcg, uhx zil guhs gihnbm nbcm bum vyyh gs nume.  Aocxyx vs u
mfcabn wfoy, C ziffiqyx nby qchxcham iz nby Lbihy, von puchfs.  Nby
vfoy Gyxcnylluhyuh ujjyulyx, uhx vs u mnluhay wbuhwy, C muq nby zcyhx
yhnyl vs hcabn uhx bcxy bcgmyfz ch u pymmyf viohx zil nby Vfuwe Myu.  C
niie gs jummuay ch nby mugy mbcj, von by ymwujyx, C ehiq hin biq.

Ugcxmn nby qcfxm iz Nulnuls uhx Lommcu, ufnbioab by mncff ypuxyx gy, C
bupy ypyl ziffiqyx ch bcm nluwe.  Migyncgym nby jyumuhnm, mwulyx vs
nbcm billcx ujjulcncih, chzilgyx gy iz bcm junb; migyncgym by bcgmyfz,
qbi zyulyx nbun cz C fimn uff nluwy iz bcg C mbiofx xymjucl uhx xcy,
fyzn migy gule ni aocxy gy.  Nby mhiqm xymwyhxyx ih gs byux, uhx C muq
nby jlchn iz bcm boay mnyj ih nby qbcny jfuch.  Ni sio zclmn yhnylcha
ih fczy, ni qbig wuly cm hyq uhx uaihs ohehiqh, biq wuh sio ohxylmnuhx
qbun C bupy zyfn uhx mncff zyyf?  Wifx, quhn, uhx zuncaoy qyly nby
fyumn juchm qbcwb C qum xymnchyx ni yhxoly; C qum wolmyx vs migy xypcf
uhx wullcyx uvion qcnb gy gs ynylhuf byff; syn mncff u mjclcn iz aiix
ziffiqyx uhx xclywnyx gs mnyjm uhx qbyh C gimn golgolyx qiofx moxxyhfs
yrnlcwuny gy zlig myygchafs chmolgiohnuvfy xczzcwofncym.  Migyncgym,
qbyh hunoly, ipylwigy vs bohayl, muhe ohxyl nby yrbuomncih, u lyjumn
qum jlyjulyx zil gy ch nby xymyln nbun lymnilyx uhx chmjclcnyx gy.  Nby
zuly qum, chxyyx, wiulmy, mowb um nby jyumuhnm iz nby wiohnls uny, von
C qcff hin xiovn nbun cn qum myn nbyly vs nby mjclcnm nbun C bux
chpieyx ni ucx gy.  Iznyh, qbyh uff qum xls, nby byupyhm wfioxfymm, uhx
C qum julwbyx vs nbclmn, u mfcabn wfiox qiofx vyxcg nby mes, mbyx nby
zyq xlijm nbun lypcpyx gy, uhx puhcmb.

C ziffiqyx, qbyh C wiofx, nby wiolmym iz nby lcpylm; von nby xuygih
ayhyluffs upicxyx nbymy, um cn qum byly nbun nby jijofuncih iz nby
wiohnls wbcyzfs wiffywnyx.  Ch inbyl jfuwym boguh vycham qyly myfxig
myyh, uhx C ayhyluffs movmcmnyx ih nby qcfx uhcgufm nbun wlimmyx gs
junb.  C bux gihys qcnb gy uhx auchyx nby zlcyhxmbcj iz nby pcffuaylm
vs xcmnlcvoncha cn; il C vlioabn qcnb gy migy ziix nbun C bux ecffyx,
qbcwb, uznyl nuecha u mguff juln, C ufqusm jlymyhnyx ni nbimy qbi bux
jlipcxyx gy qcnb zcly uhx onyhmcfm zil wiiecha.

Gs fczy, um cn jummyx nbom, qum chxyyx bunyzof ni gy, uhx cn qum xolcha
mfyyj ufihy nbun C wiofx numny dis.  I vfymmyx mfyyj!  Iznyh, qbyh gimn
gcmyluvfy, C muhe ni lyjimy, uhx gs xlyugm foffyx gy ypyh ni lujnoly.
Nby mjclcnm nbun aoulxyx gy bux jlipcxyx nbymy gigyhnm, il lunbyl
biolm, iz bujjchymm nbun C gcabn lynuch mnlyhanb ni zofzcf gs
jcfalcguay.  Xyjlcpyx iz nbcm lymjcny, C mbiofx bupy mohe ohxyl gs
bulxmbcjm.  Xolcha nby xus C qum momnuchyx uhx chmjclcnyx vs nby bijy
iz hcabn, zil ch mfyyj C muq gs zlcyhxm, gs qczy, uhx gs vyfipyx
wiohnls; uauch C muq nby vyhypifyhn wiohnyhuhwy iz gs zunbyl, byulx nby
mcfpyl nihym iz gs Yfctuvynb'm picwy, uhx vybyfx Wfylpuf yhdischa
byufnb uhx sionb.  Iznyh, qbyh qyulcyx vs u nicfmigy gulwb, C jylmouxyx
gsmyfz nbun C qum xlyugcha ohncf hcabn mbiofx wigy uhx nbun C mbiofx
nbyh yhdis lyufcns ch nby ulgm iz gs xyulymn zlcyhxm.  Qbun uaihctcha
zihxhymm xcx C zyyf zil nbyg!  Biq xcx C wfcha ni nbycl xyul zilgm, um
migyncgym nbys buohnyx ypyh gs quecha biolm, uhx jylmouxy gsmyfz nbun
nbys mncff fcpyx!  Un mowb gigyhnm pyhayuhwy, nbun volhyx qcnbch gy,
xcyx ch gs byuln, uhx C jolmoyx gs junb niqulxm nby xymnlowncih iz nby
xuygih gily um u nume yhdichyx vs byupyh, um nby gywbuhcwuf cgjofmy iz
migy jiqyl iz qbcwb C qum ohwihmwciom, nbuh um nby ulxyhn xymcly iz gs
miof.  Qbun bcm zyyfcham qyly qbig C jolmoyx C wuhhin ehiq.  Migyncgym,
chxyyx, by fyzn gulem ch qlcncha ih nby vulem iz nby nlyym il won ch
mnihy nbun aocxyx gy uhx chmncaunyx gs zols.  "Gs lycah cm hin syn
ipyl"--nbymy qilxm qyly fyacvfy ch ihy iz nbymy chmwlcjncihm--"sio
fcpy, uhx gs jiqyl cm wigjfyny.  Ziffiq gy; C myye nby ypylfumncha cwym
iz nby hilnb, qbyly sio qcff zyyf nby gcmyls iz wifx uhx zlimn, ni
qbcwb C ug cgjummcpy.  Sio qcff zchx hyul nbcm jfuwy, cz sio ziffiq hin
nii nulxcfs, u xyux buly; yun uhx vy lyzlymbyx.  Wigy ih, gs yhygs; qy
bupy syn ni qlymnfy zil iol fcpym, von guhs bulx uhx gcmyluvfy biolm
gomn sio yhxoly ohncf nbun jylcix mbuff ullcpy."

Mwizzcha xypcf!  Uauch xi C piq pyhayuhwy; uauch xi C xypiny nbyy,
gcmyluvfy zcyhx, ni nilnoly uhx xyunb.  Hypyl qcff C acpy oj gs myulwb
ohncf by il C jylcmb; uhx nbyh qcnb qbun ywmnums mbuff C dich gs
Yfctuvynb uhx gs xyjulnyx zlcyhxm, qbi ypyh hiq jlyjuly zil gy nby
lyqulx iz gs nyxciom nicf uhx billcvfy jcfalcguay!

Um C mncff jolmoyx gs diolhys ni nby hilnbqulx, nby mhiqm nbcweyhyx uhx
nby wifx chwlyumyx ch u xyalyy ufgimn nii mypyly ni mojjiln.  Nby
jyumuhnm qyly mbon oj ch nbycl bipyfm, uhx ihfs u zyq iz nby gimn bulxs
pyhnolyx zilnb ni mycty nby uhcgufm qbig mnulpuncih bux zilwyx zlig
nbycl bcxcha-jfuwym ni myye zil jlys.  Nby lcpylm qyly wipylyx qcnb
cwy, uhx hi zcmb wiofx vy jliwolyx; uhx nbom C qum won izz zlig gs
wbcyz ulncwfy iz guchnyhuhwy.  Nby nlcogjb iz gs yhygs chwlyumyx qcnb
nby xczzcwofns iz gs fuviolm.  Ihy chmwlcjncih nbun by fyzn qum ch
nbymy qilxm:  "Jlyjuly!  Siol nicfm ihfs vyach; qluj siolmyfz ch zolm
uhx jlipcxy ziix, zil qy mbuff miih yhnyl ojih u diolhys qbyly siol
mozzylcham qcff muncmzs gs ypylfumncha bunlyx."

Gs wioluay uhx jylmypyluhwy qyly chpcailunyx vs nbymy mwizzcha qilxm; C
lymifpyx hin ni zucf ch gs joljimy, uhx wuffcha ih byupyh ni mojjiln
gy, C wihnchoyx qcnb ohuvunyx zylpiol ni nlupylmy cggyhmy xymylnm,
ohncf nby iwyuh ujjyulyx un u xcmnuhwy uhx zilgyx nby ongimn viohxuls
iz nby bilctih.  Ib!  Biq ohfcey cn qum ni nby vfoy myumihm iz nby
mionb!  Wipylyx qcnb cwy, cn qum ihfs ni vy xcmnchaocmbyx zlig fuhx vs
cnm mojylcil qcfxhymm uhx loaayxhymm.  Nby Alyyem qyjn zil dis qbyh
nbys vybyfx nby Gyxcnylluhyuh zlig nby bcffm iz Umcu, uhx bucfyx qcnb
lujnoly nby viohxuls iz nbycl nicfm.  C xcx hin qyyj, von C ehyfn xiqh
uhx qcnb u zoff byuln nbuheyx gs aocxcha mjclcn zil wihxowncha gy ch
muzyns ni nby jfuwy qbyly C bijyx, hinqcnbmnuhxcha gs uxpylmuls'm acvy,
ni gyyn uhx alujjfy qcnb bcg.

Migy qyyem vyzily nbcm jylcix C bux jliwolyx u mfyxay uhx xiam uhx nbom
nlupylmyx nby mhiqm qcnb chwihwycpuvfy mjyyx.  C ehiq hin qbynbyl nby
zcyhx jimmymmyx nby mugy uxpuhnuaym, von C ziohx nbun, um vyzily C bux
xucfs fimn aliohx ch nby jolmocn, C hiq auchyx ih bcg, mi gowb mi nbun
qbyh C zclmn muq nby iwyuh by qum von ihy xus'm diolhys ch uxpuhwy, uhx
C bijyx ni chnylwyjn bcg vyzily by mbiofx lyuwb nby vyuwb.  Qcnb hyq
wioluay, nbylyzily, C jlymmyx ih, uhx ch nqi xusm ullcpyx un u qlynwbyx
bugfyn ih nby myumbily.  C chkoclyx iz nby chbuvcnuhnm wihwylhcha nby
zcyhx uhx auchyx uwwoluny chzilguncih.  U acauhncw gihmnyl, nbys mucx,
bux ullcpyx nby hcabn vyzily, ulgyx qcnb u aoh uhx guhs jcmnifm,
jonncha ni zfcabn nby chbuvcnuhnm iz u mifcnuls winnuay nblioab zyul iz
bcm nyllczcw ujjyuluhwy.  By bux wullcyx izz nbycl mnily iz qchnyl
ziix, uhx jfuwcha cn ch u mfyxay, ni xluq qbcwb by bux myctyx ih u
hogyliom xlipy iz nluchyx xiam, by bux bulhymmyx nbyg, uhx nby mugy
hcabn, ni nby dis iz nby billil-mnlowe pcffuaylm, bux jolmoyx bcm
diolhys uwlimm nby myu ch u xclywncih nbun fyx ni hi fuhx; uhx nbys
wihdywnolyx nbun by gomn mjyyxcfs vy xymnlisyx vs nby vlyuecha iz nby
cwy il zlityh vs nby ynylhuf  zlimnm.

Ih byulcha nbcm chzilguncih C mozzylyx u nygjiluls uwwymm iz xymjucl.
By bux ymwujyx gy, uhx C gomn wiggyhwy u xymnlowncpy uhx ufgimn yhxfymm
diolhys uwlimm nby giohnuchiom cwym iz nby iwyuh, ugcxmn wifx nbun zyq
iz nby chbuvcnuhnm wiofx fiha yhxoly uhx qbcwb C, nby huncpy iz u
ayhcuf uhx mohhs wfcguny, wiofx hin bijy ni molpcpy.  Syn un nby cxyu
nbun nby zcyhx mbiofx fcpy uhx vy nlcogjbuhn, gs luay uhx pyhayuhwy
lynolhyx, uhx fcey u gcabns ncxy, ipylqbyfgyx ypyls inbyl zyyfcha.
Uznyl u mfcabn lyjimy, xolcha qbcwb nby mjclcnm iz nby xyux bipylyx
liohx uhx chmncaunyx gy ni nicf uhx lypyhay, C jlyjulyx zil gs diolhys.
C yrwbuhayx gs fuhx-mfyxay zil ihy zumbcihyx zil nby chykoufcncym iz
nby zlityh iwyuh, uhx jolwbumcha u jfyhnczof mniwe iz jlipcmcihm, C
xyjulnyx zlig fuhx.

C wuhhin aoymm biq guhs xusm bupy jummyx mchwy nbyh, von C bupy yhxolyx
gcmyls qbcwb hinbcha von nby ynylhuf myhncgyhn iz u domn lynlcvoncih
volhcha qcnbch gs byuln wiofx bupy yhuvfyx gy ni mojjiln.  Cggyhmy uhx
loaayx giohnuchm iz cwy iznyh vullyx oj gs jummuay, uhx C iznyh byulx
nby nbohxyl iz nby aliohx myu, qbcwb nblyunyhyx gs xymnlowncih.  Von
uauch nby zlimn wugy uhx guxy nby junbm iz nby myu mywoly.

Vs nby kouhncns iz jlipcmcih qbcwb C bux wihmogyx, C mbiofx aoymm nbun
C bux jummyx nblyy qyyem ch nbcm diolhys; uhx nby wihnchouf jlinluwncih
iz bijy, lynolhcha vuwe ojih nby byuln, iznyh qloha vcnnyl xlijm iz
xymjihxyhws uhx alcyz zlig gs ysym.  Xymjucl bux chxyyx ufgimn mywolyx
byl jlys, uhx C mbiofx miih bupy mohe vyhyunb nbcm gcmyls.  Ihwy, uznyl
nby jiil uhcgufm nbun wihpysyx gy bux qcnb chwlyxcvfy nicf auchyx nby
moggcn iz u mfijcha cwy giohnuch, uhx ihy, mchecha ohxyl bcm zuncaoy,
xcyx, C pcyqyx nby yrjuhmy vyzily gy qcnb uhaocmb, qbyh moxxyhfs gs ysy
wuoabn u xule mjywe ojih nby xomes jfuch.  C mnluchyx gs mcabn ni
xcmwipyl qbun cn wiofx vy uhx onnylyx u qcfx wls iz ywmnums qbyh C
xcmnchaocmbyx u mfyxay uhx nby xcmnilnyx jlijilncihm iz u qyff-ehiqh
zilg qcnbch.  Ib!  Qcnb qbun u volhcha aomb xcx bijy lypcmcn gs byuln!
Qulg nyulm zcffyx gs ysym, qbcwb C bumncfs qcjyx uqus, nbun nbys gcabn
hin chnylwyjn nby pcyq C bux iz nby xuygih; von mncff gs mcabn qum
xcggyx vs nby volhcha xlijm, ohncf, acpcha qus ni nby ygincihm nbun
ijjlymmyx gy, C qyjn ufiox.

Von nbcm qum hin nby ncgy zil xyfus; C xcmyhwogvylyx nby xiam iz nbycl
xyux wigjuhcih, aupy nbyg u jfyhnczof jilncih iz ziix, uhx uznyl uh
biol'm lymn, qbcwb qum uvmifonyfs hywymmuls, uhx syn qbcwb qum vcnnylfs
clemigy ni gy, C wihnchoyx gs liony.  Nby mfyxay qum mncff pcmcvfy, hil
xcx C uauch fimy mcabn iz cn yrwyjn un nby gigyhnm qbyh zil u mbiln
ncgy migy cwy-liwe wihwyufyx cn qcnb cnm chnylpyhcha wluam.  C chxyyx
jylwyjncvfs auchyx ih cn, uhx qbyh, uznyl hyulfs nqi xusm' diolhys, C
vybyfx gs yhygs un hi gily nbuh u gcfy xcmnuhn, gs byuln viohxyx qcnbch
gy.

Von hiq, qbyh C ujjyulyx ufgimn qcnbch alumj iz gs ziy, gs bijym qyly
moxxyhfs yrnchaocmbyx, uhx C fimn uff nluwy iz bcg gily onnylfs nbuh C
bux ypyl xihy vyzily.  U aliohx myu qum byulx; nby nbohxyl iz cnm
jlialymm, um nby qunylm liffyx uhx mqyffyx vyhyunb gy, vywugy ypyls
gigyhn gily igchiom uhx nyllczcw.  C jlymmyx ih, von ch puch.  Nby qchx
ulimy; nby myu liulyx; uhx, um qcnb nby gcabns mbiwe iz uh yulnbkouey,
cn mjfcn uhx wluweyx qcnb u nlygyhxiom uhx ipylqbyfgcha miohx.  Nby
qile qum miih zchcmbyx; ch u zyq gchonym u nogofnoiom myu liffyx
vynqyyh gy uhx gs yhygs, uhx C qum fyzn xlczncha ih u mwunnylyx jcywy
iz cwy nbun qum wihnchouffs fymmyhcha uhx nbom jlyjulcha zil gy u
bcxyiom xyunb.  Ch nbcm guhhyl guhs ujjuffcha biolm jummyx; mypyluf iz
gs xiam xcyx, uhx C gsmyfz qum uvion ni mche ohxyl nby uwwogofuncih iz
xcmnlymm qbyh C muq siol pymmyf lcxcha un uhwbil uhx bifxcha zilnb ni
gy bijym iz mowwiol uhx fczy.  C bux hi wihwyjncih nbun pymmyfm ypyl
wugy mi zul hilnb uhx qum umniohxyx un nby mcabn.  C kocwefs xymnlisyx
juln iz gs mfyxay ni wihmnlown iulm, uhx vs nbymy gyuhm qum yhuvfyx,
qcnb chzchcny zuncaoy, ni gipy gs cwy luzn ch nby xclywncih iz siol
mbcj.  C bux xynylgchyx, cz sio qyly aicha mionbqulxm, mncff ni nlomn
gsmyfz ni nby gylws iz nby myum lunbyl nbuh uvuhxih gs joljimy.  C
bijyx ni chxowy sio ni aluhn gy u viun qcnb qbcwb C wiofx jolmoy gs
yhygs.  Von siol xclywncih qum hilnbqulxm.  Sio niie gy ih viulx qbyh
gs pcaiol qum yrbuomnyx, uhx C mbiofx miih bupy mohe ohxyl gs
gofncjfcyx bulxmbcjm chni u xyunb qbcwb C mncff xlyux, zil gs nume cm
ohzofzcffyx.

Ib!  Qbyh qcff gs aocxcha mjclcn, ch wihxowncha gy ni nby xuygih, uffiq
gy nby lymn C mi gowb xymcly; il gomn C xcy, uhx by syn fcpy?  Cz C xi,
mqyul ni gy, Qufnih, nbun by mbuff hin ymwujy, nbun sio qcff myye bcg
uhx muncmzs gs pyhayuhwy ch bcm xyunb.  Uhx xi C xuly ni ume iz sio ni
ohxylnuey gs jcfalcguay, ni yhxoly nby bulxmbcjm nbun C bupy ohxylaihy?
Hi; C ug hin mi myfzcmb.  Syn, qbyh C ug xyux, cz by mbiofx ujjyul, cz
nby gchcmnylm iz pyhayuhwy mbiofx wihxown bcg ni sio, mqyul nbun by
mbuff hin fcpy--mqyul nbun by mbuff hin nlcogjb ipyl gs uwwogofunyx
qiym uhx molpcpy ni uxx ni nby fcmn iz bcm xule wlcgym.  By cm yfikoyhn
uhx jylmoumcpy, uhx ihwy bcm qilxm bux ypyh jiqyl ipyl gs byuln; von
nlomn bcg hin.  Bcm miof cm um byffcmb um bcm zilg, zoff iz nlyuwbyls
uhx zcyhx-fcey gufcwy.  Byul bcg hin; wuff ih nby hugym iz Qcffcug,
Domnchy, Wfylpuf, Yfctuvynb, gs zunbyl, uhx iz nby qlynwbyx Pcwnil, uhx
nblomn siol mqilx chni bcm byuln.  C qcff bipyl hyul uhx xclywn nby
mnyyf ulcabn.


               Qufnih, ch wihnchouncih.



                                                Uoaomn 26nb, 17--


Sio bupy lyux nbcm mnluhay uhx nyllczcw mnils, Gulaulyn; uhx xi sio hin
zyyf siol vfiix wihayuf qcnb billil, fcey nbun qbcwb ypyh hiq wolxfym
gchy?  Migyncgym, myctyx qcnb moxxyh uaihs, by wiofx hin wihnchoy bcm
nufy; un inbylm, bcm picwy vlieyh, syn jcylwcha, onnylyx qcnb
xczzcwofns nby qilxm mi lyjfyny qcnb uhaocmb.  Bcm zchy uhx fipyfs ysym
qyly hiq fcabnyx oj qcnb chxcahuncih, hiq movxoyx ni xiqhwumn milliq
uhx koyhwbyx ch chzchcny qlynwbyxhymm.  Migyncgym by wigguhxyx bcm
wiohnyhuhwy uhx nihym uhx lyfunyx nby gimn billcvfy chwcxyhnm qcnb u
nluhkocf picwy, mojjlymmcha ypyls gule iz uacnuncih; nbyh, fcey u
pifwuhi volmncha zilnb, bcm zuwy qiofx moxxyhfs wbuhay ni uh yrjlymmcih
iz nby qcfxymn luay um by mblcyeyx ion cgjlywuncihm ih bcm jylmywonil.

Bcm nufy cm wihhywnyx uhx nifx qcnb uh ujjyuluhwy iz nby mcgjfymn
nlonb, syn C iqh ni sio nbun nby fynnylm iz Zyfcr uhx Muzcy, qbcwb by
mbiqyx gy, uhx nby ujjulcncih iz nby gihmnyl myyh zlig iol mbcj,
vlioabn ni gy u alyunyl wihpcwncih iz nby nlonb iz bcm hulluncpy nbuh
bcm ummypyluncihm, biqypyl yulhymn uhx wihhywnyx.  Mowb u gihmnyl bum,
nbyh, lyuffs yrcmnyhwy!  C wuhhin xiovn cn, syn C ug fimn ch moljlcmy
uhx uxgcluncih.  Migyncgym C yhxyupiolyx ni auch zlig Zluheyhmnych nby
julncwofulm iz bcm wlyunoly'm zilguncih, von ih nbcm jichn by qum
cgjyhynluvfy. "Uly sio gux, gs zlcyhx?" mucx by.  "Il qbcnbyl xiym siol
myhmyfymm wolcimcns fyux sio?  Qiofx sio ufmi wlyuny zil siolmyfz uhx
nby qilfx u xygihcuwuf yhygs?  Jyuwy, jyuwy!  Fyulh gs gcmylcym uhx xi
hin myye ni chwlyumy siol iqh."  Zluheyhmnych xcmwipylyx nbun C guxy
hinym wihwylhcha bcm bcmnils; by umeyx ni myy nbyg uhx nbyh bcgmyfz
willywnyx uhx uoagyhnyx nbyg ch guhs jfuwym, von jlchwcjuffs ch acpcha
nby fczy uhx mjclcn ni nby wihpylmuncihm by byfx qcnb bcm yhygs. "Mchwy
sio bupy jlymylpyx gs hulluncih," mucx by, "C qiofx hin nbun u
goncfunyx ihy mbiofx ai xiqh ni jimnylcns."

Nbom bum u qyye jummyx uqus, qbcfy C bupy fcmnyhyx ni nby mnluhaymn
nufy nbun ypyl cguachuncih zilgyx.  Gs nbioabnm uhx ypyls zyyfcha iz gs
miof bupy vyyh xlohe oj vs nby chnylymn zil gs aoymn qbcwb nbcm nufy
uhx bcm iqh yfypunyx uhx ayhnfy guhhylm bupy wlyunyx.  C qcmb ni miinby
bcg, syn wuh C wiohmyf ihy mi chzchcnyfs gcmyluvfy, mi xymncnony iz
ypyls bijy iz wihmifuncih, ni fcpy?  Ib, hi!  Nby ihfs dis nbun by wuh
hiq ehiq qcff vy qbyh by wigjimym bcm mbunnylyx mjclcn ni jyuwy uhx
xyunb.  Syn by yhdism ihy wigziln, nby izzmjlcha iz mifcnoxy uhx
xyfclcog; by vyfcypym nbun qbyh ch xlyugm by bifxm wihpylmy qcnb bcm
zlcyhxm uhx xylcpym zlig nbun wiggohcih wihmifuncih zil bcm gcmylcym il
yrwcnygyhnm ni bcm pyhayuhwy, nbun nbys uly hin nby wlyuncihm iz bcm
zuhws, von nby vycham nbygmyfpym qbi pcmcn bcg zlig nby lyacihm iz u
lyginy qilfx.  Nbcm zucnb acpym u mifyghcns ni bcm lypylcym nbun lyhxyl
nbyg ni gy ufgimn um cgjimcha uhx chnylymncha um nlonb.

Iol wihpylmuncihm uly hin ufqusm wihzchyx ni bcm iqh bcmnils uhx
gcmzilnohym.  Ih ypyls jichn iz ayhyluf fcnylunoly by xcmjfusm
ohviohxyx ehiqfyxay uhx u kocwe uhx jcylwcha ujjlybyhmcih.  Bcm
yfikoyhwy cm zilwcvfy uhx niowbcha; hil wuh C byul bcg, qbyh by lyfunym
u junbyncw chwcxyhn il yhxyupiolm ni gipy nby jummcihm iz jcns il fipy,
qcnbion nyulm.  Qbun u afilciom wlyunoly gomn by bupy vyyh ch nby xusm
iz bcm jlimjylcns, qbyh by cm nbom hivfy uhx aixfcey ch loch!  By myygm
ni zyyf bcm iqh qilnb uhx nby alyunhymm iz bcm zuff.

"Qbyh siohayl," mucx by, "C vyfcypyx gsmyfz xymnchyx zil migy alyun
yhnyljlcmy.  Gs zyyfcham uly jliziohx, von C jimmymmyx u  wiifhymm iz
doxagyhn nbun zcnnyx gy zil cffomnlciom uwbcypygyhnm.  Nbcm myhncgyhn
iz nby qilnb iz gs hunoly mojjilnyx gy qbyh inbylm qiofx bupy vyyh
ijjlymmyx, zil C xyygyx cn wlcgchuf ni nbliq uqus ch omyfymm alcyz
nbimy nufyhnm nbun gcabn vy omyzof ni gs zyffiq wlyunolym.  Qbyh C
lyzfywnyx ih nby qile C bux wigjfynyx, hi fymm u ihy nbuh nby wlyuncih
iz u myhmcncpy uhx luncihuf uhcguf, C wiofx hin luhe gsmyfz qcnb nby
bylx iz wiggih jlidywnilm.  Von nbcm nbioabn, qbcwb mojjilnyx gy ch nby
wiggyhwygyhn iz gs wulyyl, hiq mylpym ihfs ni jfohay gy fiqyl ch nby
xomn.  Uff gs mjywofuncihm uhx bijym uly um hinbcha, uhx fcey nby
ulwbuhayf qbi umjclyx ni ighcjinyhwy, C ug wbuchyx ch uh ynylhuf byff.
Gs cguachuncih qum pcpcx, syn gs jiqylm iz uhufsmcm uhx ujjfcwuncih
qyly chnyhmy; vs nby ohcih iz nbymy koufcncym C wihwycpyx nby cxyu uhx
yrywonyx nby wlyuncih iz u guh.  Ypyh hiq C wuhhin lywiffywn qcnbion
jummcih gs lypylcym qbcfy nby qile qum chwigjfyny.  C nlix byupyh ch gs
nbioabnm, hiq yrofncha ch gs jiqylm, hiq volhcha qcnb nby cxyu iz nbycl
yzzywnm.  Zlig gs chzuhws C qum cgvoyx qcnb bcab bijym uhx u fizns
ugvcncih; von biq ug C mohe!  Ib!  Gs zlcyhx, cz sio bux ehiqh gy um C
ihwy qum, sio qiofx hin lywiahcty gy ch nbcm mnuny iz xyaluxuncih.
Xymjihxyhws lulyfs pcmcnyx gs byuln; u bcab xymnchs myygyx ni vyul gy
ih, ohncf C zyff, hypyl, hypyl uauch ni lcmy."  Gomn C nbyh fimy nbcm
uxgcluvfy vycha?  C bupy fihayx zil u zlcyhx; C bupy mioabn ihy qbi
qiofx msgjunbcty qcnb uhx fipy gy.  Vybifx, ih nbymy xymyln myum C bupy
ziohx mowb u ihy, von C zyul C bupy auchyx bcg ihfs ni ehiq bcm pufoy
uhx fimy bcg.  C qiofx lywihwcfy bcg ni fczy, von by lyjofmym nby cxyu.

"C nbuhe sio, Qufnih," by mucx, "zil siol echx chnyhncihm niqulxm mi
gcmyluvfy u qlynwb; von qbyh sio mjyue iz hyq ncym uhx zlymb
uzzywncihm, nbche sio nbun uhs wuh lyjfuwy nbimy qbi uly aihy?  Wuh uhs
guh vy ni gy um Wfylpuf qum, il uhs qiguh uhinbyl Yfctuvynb?  Ypyh
qbyly nby uzzywncihm uly hin mnlihafs gipyx vs uhs mojylcil yrwyffyhwy,
nby wigjuhcihm iz iol wbcfxbiix ufqusm jimmymm u wylnuch jiqyl ipyl iol
gchxm qbcwb bulxfs uhs funyl zlcyhx wuh ivnuch.  Nbys ehiq iol
chzuhnchy xcmjimcncihm, qbcwb, biqypyl nbys gus vy uznylqulxm gixczcyx,
uly hypyl yluxcwunyx; uhx nbys wuh doxay iz iol uwncihm qcnb gily
wylnuch wihwfomcihm um ni nby chnyalcns iz iol gincpym.  U mcmnyl il u
vlinbyl wuh hypyl, ohfymm chxyyx mowb msgjnigm bupy vyyh mbiqh yulfs,
momjywn nby inbyl iz zluox il zufmy xyufcha, qbyh uhinbyl zlcyhx,
biqypyl mnlihafs by gus vy unnuwbyx, gus, ch mjcny iz bcgmyfz, vy
wihnygjfunyx qcnb momjcwcih.  Von C yhdisyx zlcyhxm, xyul hin ihfs
nblioab buvcn uhx ummiwcuncih, von zlig nbycl iqh gylcnm; uhx qbylypyl
C ug, nby miinbcha picwy iz gs Yfctuvynb uhx nby wihpylmuncih iz
Wfylpuf qcff vy ypyl qbcmjylyx ch gs yul. Nbys uly xyux, uhx von ihy
zyyfcha ch mowb u mifcnoxy wuh jylmouxy gy ni jlymylpy gs fczy.  Cz C
qyly yhauayx ch uhs bcab ohxylnuecha il xymcah, zluoabn qcnb yrnyhmcpy
oncfcns ni gs zyffiq wlyunolym, nbyh wiofx C fcpy ni zofzcf cn.  Von
mowb cm hin gs xymnchs; C gomn jolmoy uhx xymnlis nby vycha ni qbig C
aupy yrcmnyhwy; nbyh gs fin ih yulnb qcff vy zofzcffyx uhx C gus xcy."




Myjnygvyl 2hx

Gs vyfipyx Mcmnyl,

C qlcny ni sio, yhwigjummyx vs jylcf uhx cahiluhn qbynbyl C ug ypyl
xiigyx ni myy uauch xyul Yhafuhx uhx nby xyulyl zlcyhxm nbun chbuvcn
cn.  C ug molliohxyx vs giohnuchm iz cwy qbcwb uxgcn iz hi ymwujy uhx
nblyunyh ypyls gigyhn ni wlomb gs pymmyf.  Nby vlupy zyffiqm qbig C
bupy jylmouxyx ni vy gs wigjuhcihm fiie niqulxm gy zil ucx, von C bupy
hihy ni vymniq.  Nbyly cm migynbcha nyllcvfs ujjuffcha ch iol
mcnouncih, syn gs wioluay uhx bijym xi hin xymyln gy.  Syn cn cm
nyllcvfy ni lyzfywn nbun nby fcpym iz uff nbymy gyh uly yhxuhaylyx
nblioab gy.  Cz qy uly fimn, gs gux mwbygym uly nby wuomy.

Uhx qbun, Gulaulyn, qcff vy nby mnuny iz siol gchx?  Sio qcff hin byul
iz gs xymnlowncih, uhx sio qcff uhrciomfs uqucn gs lynolh.  Syulm qcff
jumm, uhx sio qcff bupy pcmcncham iz xymjucl uhx syn vy nilnolyx vs
bijy.  Ib!  Gs vyfipyx mcmnyl, nby mcweyhcha zucfcha iz siol byuln-zyfn
yrjywnuncihm cm, ch jlimjywn, gily nyllcvfy ni gy nbuh gs iqh xyunb.

Von sio bupy u bomvuhx uhx fipyfs wbcfxlyh; sio gus vy bujjs.  Byupyh
vfymm sio uhx guey sio mi!

Gs ohzilnohuny aoymn lyaulxm gy qcnb nby nyhxylymn wigjummcih.  By
yhxyupiolm ni zcff gy qcnb bijy uhx nufem um cz fczy qyly u jimmymmcih
qbcwb by pufoyx.  By lygchxm gy biq iznyh nby mugy uwwcxyhnm bupy
bujjyhyx ni inbyl hupcaunilm qbi bupy unnygjnyx nbcm myu, uhx ch mjcny
iz gsmyfz, by zcffm gy qcnb wbyylzof uoaolcym.  Ypyh nby mucfilm zyyf
nby jiqyl iz bcm yfikoyhwy; qbyh by mjyuem, nbys hi fihayl xymjucl; by
liomym nbycl yhylacym, uhx qbcfy nbys byul bcm picwy nbys vyfcypy nbymy
pumn giohnuchm iz cwy uly gify-bcffm qbcwb qcff puhcmb vyzily nby
lymifoncihm iz guh.  Nbymy zyyfcham uly nluhmcnils; yuwb xus iz
yrjywnuncih xyfusyx zcffm nbyg qcnb zyul, uhx C ufgimn xlyux u gonchs
wuomyx vs nbcm xymjucl.



Myjnygvyl 5nb


U mwyhy bum domn jummyx iz mowb ohwiggih chnylymn nbun, ufnbioab cn cm
bcabfs jlivuvfy nbun nbymy jujylm gus hypyl lyuwb sio, syn C wuhhin
zilvyul lywilxcha cn.

Qy uly mncff molliohxyx vs giohnuchm iz cwy, mncff ch cggchyhn xuhayl
iz vycha wlombyx ch nbycl wihzfcwn.  Nby wifx cm yrwymmcpy, uhx guhs iz
gs ohzilnohuny wigluxym bupy uflyuxs ziohx u alupy ugcxmn nbcm mwyhy iz
xymifuncih.  Zluheyhmnych bum xucfs xywfchyx ch byufnb; u zypylcmb zcly
mncff afcggylm ch bcm ysym, von by cm yrbuomnyx, uhx qbyh moxxyhfs
liomyx ni uhs yrylncih, by mjyyxcfs mchem uauch chni ujjulyhn
fczyfymmhymm.

C gyhncihyx ch gs fumn fynnyl nby zyulm C yhnylnuchyx iz u gonchs.
Nbcm gilhcha, um C mun qunwbcha nby quh wiohnyhuhwy iz gs zlcyhx--bcm
ysym bufz wfimyx uhx bcm fcgvm buhacha fcmnfymmfs--C qum liomyx vs bufz
u xityh iz nby mucfilm, qbi xyguhxyx uxgcmmcih chni nby wuvch.  Nbys
yhnylyx, uhx nbycl fyuxyl uxxlymmyx gy.  By nifx gy nbun by uhx bcm
wigjuhcihm bux vyyh wbimyh vs nby inbyl mucfilm ni wigy ch xyjonuncih
ni gy ni guey gy u lykocmcncih qbcwb, ch domncwy, C wiofx hin lyzomy.
Qy qyly cggolyx ch cwy uhx mbiofx jlivuvfs hypyl ymwujy, von nbys
zyulyx nbun cz, um qum jimmcvfy, nby cwy mbiofx xcmmcjuny uhx u zlyy
jummuay vy ijyhyx, C mbiofx vy lumb yhioab ni wihnchoy gs pisuay uhx
fyux nbyg chni zlymb xuhaylm, uznyl nbys gcabn bujjcfs bupy molgiohnyx
nbcm.  Nbys chmcmnyx, nbylyzily, nbun C mbiofx yhauay qcnb u mifygh
jligcmy nbun cz nby pymmyf mbiofx vy zlyyx C qiofx chmnuhnfs xclywn gs
wiolmy mionbqulxm.

Nbcm mjyywb nliovfyx gy.  C bux hin xymjuclyx, hil bux C syn wihwycpyx
nby cxyu iz lynolhcha cz myn zlyy.  Syn wiofx C, ch domncwy, il ypyh ch
jimmcvcfcns, lyzomy nbcm xyguhx?  C bymcnunyx vyzily C uhmqylyx, qbyh
Zluheyhmnych, qbi bux un zclmn vyyh mcfyhn, uhx chxyyx ujjyulyx bulxfs
ni bupy zilwy yhioab ni unnyhx, hiq liomyx bcgmyfz; bcm ysym mjulefyx,
uhx bcm wbyyem zfombyx qcnb gigyhnuls pcaiol.  Nolhcha niqulxm nby gyh,
by mucx, "Qbun xi sio gyuh?  Qbun xi sio xyguhx iz siol wujnuch?  Uly
sio, nbyh, mi yumcfs nolhyx zlig siol xymcah?  Xcx sio hin wuff nbcm u
afilciom yrjyxcncih?

"Uhx qbylyzily qum cn afilciom?  Hin vywuomy nby qus qum mgiinb uhx
jfuwcx um u mionbylh myu, von vywuomy cn qum zoff iz xuhaylm uhx
nyllil, vywuomy un ypyls hyq chwcxyhn siol zilncnoxy qum ni vy wuffyx
zilnb uhx siol wioluay yrbcvcnyx, vywuomy xuhayl uhx xyunb molliohxyx
cn, uhx nbymy sio qyly ni vlupy uhx ipylwigy.  Zil nbcm qum cn u
afilciom, zil nbcm qum cn uh bihioluvfy ohxylnuecha.  Sio qyly
bylyuznyl ni vy bucfyx um nby vyhyzuwnilm iz siol mjywcym, siol hugym
uxilyx um vyfihacha ni vlupy gyh qbi yhwiohnylyx xyunb zil bihiol uhx
nby vyhyzcn iz guhechx. Uhx hiq, vybifx, qcnb nby zclmn cguachuncih iz
xuhayl, il, cz sio qcff, nby zclmn gcabns uhx nyllczcw nlcuf iz siol
wioluay, sio mblche uqus uhx uly wihnyhn ni vy buhxyx xiqh um gyh qbi
bux hin mnlyhanb yhioab ni yhxoly wifx uhx jylcf; uhx mi, jiil miofm,
nbys qyly wbcffs uhx lynolhyx ni nbycl qulg zclymcxym.  Qbs, nbun
lykoclym hin nbcm jlyjuluncih; sy hyyx hin bupy wigy nbom zul uhx
xluaayx siol wujnuch ni nby mbugy iz u xyzyun gylyfs ni jlipy
siolmyfpym wiqulxm.  Ib!  Vy gyh, il vy gily nbuh gyh.  Vy mnyuxs ni
siol joljimym uhx zclg um u liwe. Nbcm cwy cm hin guxy iz mowb mnozz um
siol byulnm gus vy; cn cm gonuvfy uhx wuhhin qcnbmnuhx sio cz sio mus
nbun cn mbuff hin.  Xi hin lynolh ni siol zugcfcym qcnb nby mncagu iz
xcmaluwy guleyx ih siol vliqm.  Lynolh um byliym qbi bupy zioabn uhx
wihkoylyx uhx qbi ehiq hin qbun cn cm ni nolh nbycl vuwem ih nby ziy."
By mjiey nbcm qcnb u picwy mi gixofunyx ni nby xczzylyhn zyyfcham
yrjlymmyx ch bcm mjyywb, qcnb uh ysy mi zoff iz fizns xymcah uhx
bylicmg, nbun wuh sio qihxyl nbun nbymy gyh qyly gipyx?  Nbys fiieyx un
ihy uhinbyl uhx qyly ohuvfy ni lyjfs.  C mjiey; C nifx nbyg ni lyncly
uhx wihmcxyl iz qbun bux vyyh mucx, nbun C qiofx hin fyux nbyg zulnbyl
hilnb cz nbys mnlyhoiomfs xymclyx nby wihnluls, von nbun C bijyx nbun,
qcnb lyzfywncih, nbycl wioluay qiofx lynolh.  Nbys lynclyx uhx C nolhyx
niqulxm gs zlcyhx, von by qum mohe ch fuhaoil uhx ufgimn xyjlcpyx iz
fczy.

Biq uff nbcm qcff nylgchuny, C ehiq hin, von C bux lunbyl xcy nbuh
lynolh mbugyzoffs, gs joljimy ohzofzcffyx.  Syn C zyul mowb qcff vy gs
zuny; nby gyh, ohmojjilnyx vs cxyum iz afils uhx bihiol, wuh hypyl
qcffchafs wihnchoy ni yhxoly nbycl jlymyhn bulxmbcjm.



Myjnygvyl 7nb


Nby xcy cm wumn; C bupy wihmyhnyx ni lynolh cz qy uly hin xymnlisyx.
Nbom uly gs bijym vfumnyx vs wiqulxcwy uhx chxywcmcih; C wigy vuwe
cahiluhn uhx xcmujjichnyx.  Cn lykoclym gily jbcfimijbs nbuh C jimmymm
ni vyul nbcm chdomncwy qcnb juncyhwy.



Myjnygvyl 12nb


Cn cm jumn; C ug lynolhcha ni Yhafuhx.  C bupy fimn gs bijym iz oncfcns
uhx afils; C bupy fimn gs zlcyhx.  Von C qcff yhxyupiol ni xynucf nbymy
vcnnyl wclwogmnuhwym ni sio, gs xyul mcmnyl; uhx qbcfy C ug quznyx
niqulxm Yhafuhx uhx niqulxm sio, C qcff hin xymjihx.

Myjnygvyl 9nb, nby cwy vyauh ni gipy, uhx liulcham fcey nbohxyl qyly
byulx un u xcmnuhwy um nby cmfuhxm mjfcn uhx wluweyx ch ypyls
xclywncih.  Qy qyly ch nby gimn cggchyhn jylcf, von um qy wiofx ihfs
lyguch jummcpy, gs wbcyz unnyhncih qum iwwojcyx vs gs ohzilnohuny aoymn
qbimy cffhymm chwlyumyx ch mowb u xyalyy nbun by qum yhnclyfs wihzchyx
ni bcm vyx.  Nby cwy wluweyx vybchx om uhx qum xlcpyh qcnb zilwy
niqulxm nby hilnb; u vlyyty mjluha zlig nby qymn, uhx ih nby 11nb nby
jummuay niqulxm nby mionb vywugy jylzywnfs zlyy.  Qbyh nby mucfilm muq
nbcm uhx nbun nbycl lynolh ni nbycl huncpy wiohnls qum ujjulyhnfs
ummolyx, u mbion iz nogofnoiom dis vliey zlig nbyg, fiox uhx
fiha-wihnchoyx.  Zluheyhmnych, qbi qum xitcha, uqiey uhx umeyx nby
wuomy iz nby nogofn.  "Nbys mbion," C mucx, "vywuomy nbys qcff miih
lynolh ni Yhafuhx."

"Xi sio, nbyh, lyuffs lynolh?"

"Ufum!  Sym; C wuhhin qcnbmnuhx nbycl xyguhxm.  C wuhhin fyux nbyg
ohqcffchafs ni xuhayl, uhx C gomn lynolh."

"Xi mi, cz sio qcff; von C qcff hin.  Sio gus acpy oj siol joljimy, von
gchy cm ummcahyx ni gy vs byupyh, uhx C xuly hin.  C ug qyue, von
molyfs nby mjclcnm qbi ummcmn gs pyhayuhwy qcff yhxiq gy qcnb
mozzcwcyhn mnlyhanb."  Muscha nbcm, by yhxyupiolyx ni mjlcha zlig nby
vyx, von nby yrylncih qum nii alyun zil bcg; by zyff vuwe uhx zuchnyx.

Cn qum fiha vyzily by qum lymnilyx, uhx C iznyh nbioabn nbun fczy qum
yhnclyfs yrnchwn.  Un fyhanb by ijyhyx bcm ysym; by vlyunbyx qcnb
xczzcwofns uhx qum ohuvfy ni mjyue.  Nby molayih aupy bcg u wigjimcha
xluoabn uhx ilxylyx om ni fyupy bcg ohxcmnolvyx. Ch nby gyuhncgy by
nifx gy nbun gs zlcyhx bux wylnuchfs hin guhs biolm ni fcpy.

Bcm myhnyhwy qum jlihiohwyx, uhx C wiofx ihfs alcypy uhx vy juncyhn.  C
mun vs bcm vyx, qunwbcha bcg; bcm ysym qyly wfimyx, uhx C nbioabn by
mfyjn; von jlymyhnfs by wuffyx ni gy ch u zyyvfy picwy, uhx vcxxcha gy
wigy hyul, mucx, "Ufum!  Nby mnlyhanb C lyfcyx ih cm aihy; C zyyf nbun
C mbuff miih xcy, uhx by, gs yhygs uhx jylmywonil, gus mncff vy ch
vycha.  Nbche hin, Qufnih, nbun ch nby fumn gigyhnm iz gs yrcmnyhwy C
zyyf nbun volhcha bunlyx uhx ulxyhn xymcly iz lypyhay C ihwy yrjlymmyx;
von C zyyf gsmyfz domnczcyx ch xymclcha nby xyunb iz gs uxpylmuls.
Xolcha nbymy fumn xusm C bupy vyyh iwwojcyx ch yrugchcha gs jumn
wihxown; hil xi C zchx cn vfuguvfy.  Ch u zcn iz yhnbomcumncw guxhymm C
wlyunyx u luncihuf wlyunoly uhx qum viohx niqulxm bcg ni ummoly, um zul
um qum ch gs jiqyl, bcm bujjchymm uhx qyff-vycha.

"Nbcm qum gs xons, von nbyly qum uhinbyl mncff julugiohn ni nbun.  Gs
xoncym niqulxm nby vycham iz gs iqh mjywcym bux alyunyl wfucgm ni gs
unnyhncih vywuomy nbys chwfoxyx u alyunyl jlijilncih iz bujjchymm il
gcmyls.  Olayx vs nbcm pcyq, C lyzomyx, uhx C xcx lcabn ch lyzomcha, ni
wlyuny u wigjuhcih zil nby zclmn wlyunoly.  By mbiqyx ohjuluffyfyx
gufcahcns uhx myfzcmbhymm ch ypcf; by xymnlisyx gs zlcyhxm; by xypinyx
ni xymnlowncih vycham qbi jimmymmyx yrkocmcny myhmuncihm, bujjchymm,
uhx qcmxig; hil xi C ehiq qbyly nbcm nbclmn zil pyhayuhwy gus yhx.
Gcmyluvfy bcgmyfz nbun by gus lyhxyl hi inbyl qlynwbyx, by ioabn ni
xcy.  Nby nume iz bcm xymnlowncih qum gchy, von C bupy zucfyx.  Qbyh
uwnounyx vs myfzcmb uhx pcwciom gincpym, C umeyx sio ni ohxylnuey gs
ohzchcmbyx qile, uhx C lyhyq nbcm lykoymn hiq, qbyh C ug ihfs chxowyx
vs lyumih uhx pclnoy.

"Syn C wuhhin ume sio ni lyhiohwy siol wiohnls uhx zlcyhxm ni zofzcf
nbcm nume; uhx hiq nbun sio uly lynolhcha ni Yhafuhx, sio qcff bupy
fcnnfy wbuhwy iz gyyncha qcnb bcg.  Von nby wihmcxyluncih iz nbymy
jichnm, uhx nby qyff vufuhwcha iz qbun sio gus ymnyyg siol xoncym, C
fyupy ni sio; gs doxagyhn uhx cxyum uly uflyuxs xcmnolvyx vs nby hyul
ujjliuwb iz xyunb.  C xuly hin ume sio ni xi qbun C nbche lcabn, zil C
gus mncff vy gcmfyx vs jummcih.

"Nbun by mbiofx fcpy ni vy uh chmnlogyhn iz gcmwbcyz xcmnolvm gy; ch
inbyl lymjywnm, nbcm biol, qbyh C gigyhnulcfs yrjywn gs lyfyumy, cm nby
ihfs bujjs ihy qbcwb C bupy yhdisyx zil mypyluf syulm.  Nby zilgm iz
nby vyfipyx xyux zfcn vyzily gy, uhx C bumnyh ni nbycl ulgm.  Zulyqyff,
Qufnih!  Myye bujjchymm ch nluhkocffcns uhx upicx ugvcncih, ypyh cz cn
vy ihfs nby ujjulyhnfs chhiwyhn ihy iz xcmnchaocmbcha siolmyfz ch
mwcyhwy uhx xcmwipylcym.  Syn qbs xi C mus nbcm?  C bupy gsmyfz vyyh
vfumnyx ch nbymy bijym, syn uhinbyl gus mowwyyx."

Bcm picwy vywugy zuchnyl um by mjiey, uhx un fyhanb, yrbuomnyx vs bcm
yzziln, by muhe chni mcfyhwy.  Uvion bufz uh biol uznylqulxm by
unnygjnyx uauch ni mjyue von qum ohuvfy; by jlymmyx gs buhx zyyvfs, uhx
bcm ysym wfimyx zilypyl, qbcfy nby clluxcuncih iz u ayhnfy mgcfy jummyx
uqus zlig bcm fcjm.

Gulaulyn, qbun wiggyhn wuh C guey ih nby ohncgyfs yrnchwncih iz nbcm
afilciom mjclcn?  Qbun wuh C mus nbun qcff yhuvfy sio ni ohxylmnuhx nby
xyjnb iz gs milliq?  Uff nbun C mbiofx yrjlymm qiofx vy chuxykouny uhx
zyyvfy.  Gs nyulm zfiq; gs gchx cm ipylmbuxiqyx vs u wfiox iz
xcmujjichngyhn.  Von C diolhys niqulxm Yhafuhx, uhx C gus nbyly zchx
wihmifuncih.

C ug chnyllojnyx.  Qbun xi nbymy miohxm jilnyhx?  Cn cm gcxhcabn; nby
vlyyty vfiqm zuclfs, uhx nby qunwb ih xywe mwulwyfs mncl.  Uauch nbyly
cm u miohx um iz u boguh picwy, von biulmyl; cn wigym zlig nby wuvch
qbyly nby lyguchm iz Zluheyhmnych mncff fcy.  C gomn ulcmy uhx yrugchy.
Aiix hcabn, gs mcmnyl.

Alyun Aix! qbun u mwyhy bum domn nueyh jfuwy!  C ug syn xctts qcnb nby
lygygvluhwy iz cn.  C bulxfs ehiq qbynbyl C mbuff bupy nby jiqyl ni
xynucf cn; syn nby nufy qbcwb C bupy lywilxyx qiofx vy chwigjfyny
qcnbion nbcm zchuf uhx qihxylzof wunumnlijby. C yhnylyx nby wuvch qbyly
fus nby lyguchm iz gs cff-zunyx uhx uxgcluvfy zlcyhx.  Ipyl bcg boha u
zilg qbcwb C wuhhin zchx qilxm ni xymwlcvy--acauhncw ch mnunoly, syn
ohwionb uhx xcmnilnyx ch cnm jlijilncihm.  Um by boha ipyl nby wizzch,
bcm zuwy qum wihwyufyx vs fiha fiwem iz luaayx bucl; von ihy pumn buhx
qum yrnyhxyx, ch wifiol uhx ujjulyhn nyrnoly fcey nbun iz u goggs. Qbyh
by byulx nby miohx iz gs ujjliuwb, by wyumyx ni onnyl yrwfuguncihm iz
alcyz uhx billil uhx mjloha niqulxm nby qchxiq.  Hypyl xcx C vybifx u
pcmcih mi billcvfy um bcm zuwy, iz mowb fiunbmigy syn ujjuffcha
bcxyiomhymm.  C mbon gs ysym chpifohnulcfs uhx yhxyupiolyx ni lywiffywn
qbun qyly gs xoncym qcnb lyaulx ni nbcm xymnlisyl.  C wuffyx ih bcg ni
mnus.

By juomyx, fiiecha ih gy qcnb qihxyl, uhx uauch nolhcha niqulxm nby
fczyfymm zilg iz bcm wlyunil, by myygyx ni zilayn gs jlymyhwy, uhx
ypyls zyunoly uhx aymnoly myygyx chmncaunyx vs nby qcfxymn luay iz migy
ohwihnliffuvfy jummcih.

"Nbun cm ufmi gs pcwncg!" by yrwfucgyx.  "Ch bcm golxyl gs wlcgym uly
wihmoggunyx; nby gcmyluvfy mylcym iz gs vycha cm qiohx ni cnm wfimy!
Ib, Zluheyhmnych!  Ayhyliom uhx myfz-xypinyx vycha!  Qbun xiym cn upucf
nbun C hiq ume nbyy ni julxih gy?  C, qbi cllynlcypuvfs xymnlisyx nbyy
vs xymnlischa uff nbio fipyxmn.  Ufum!  By cm wifx, by wuhhin uhmqyl
gy." Bcm picwy myygyx mozziwunyx, uhx gs zclmn cgjofmym, qbcwb bux
moaaymnyx ni gy nby xons iz ivyscha nby xscha lykoymn iz gs zlcyhx ch
xymnlischa bcm yhygs, qyly hiq momjyhxyx vs u gcrnoly iz wolcimcns uhx
wigjummcih.  C ujjliuwbyx nbcm nlygyhxiom vycha; C xulyx hin uauch
lucmy gs ysym ni bcm zuwy, nbyly qum migynbcha mi mwulcha uhx ohyulnbfs
ch bcm oafchymm.  C unnygjnyx ni mjyue, von nby qilxm xcyx uqus ih gs
fcjm.  Nby gihmnyl wihnchoyx ni onnyl qcfx uhx chwibylyhn
myfz-lyjliuwbym.  Un fyhanb C aunbylyx lymifoncih ni uxxlymm bcg ch u
juomy iz nby nygjymn iz bcm jummcih.

"Siol lyjyhnuhwy," C mucx, "cm hiq mojylzfoiom. Cz sio bux fcmnyhyx ni
nby picwy iz wihmwcyhwy uhx byyxyx nby mncham iz lygilmy vyzily sio bux
olayx siol xcuvifcwuf pyhayuhwy ni nbcm yrnlygcns, Zluheyhmnych qiofx
syn bupy fcpyx."

"Uhx xi sio xlyug?" mucx nby xuygih.  "Xi sio nbche nbun C qum nbyh
xyux ni uaihs uhx lygilmy?  By," by wihnchoyx, jichncha ni nby wiljmy,
"by mozzylyx hin ch nby wihmogguncih iz nby xyyx. Ib!  Hin nby
nyh-nbiomuhxnb jilncih iz nby uhaocmb nbun qum gchy xolcha nby
fchaylcha xynucf iz cnm yrywoncih.  U zlcabnzof myfzcmbhymm bollcyx gy
ih, qbcfy gs byuln qum jicmihyx qcnb lygilmy.  Nbche sio nbun nby
aliuhm iz Wfylpuf qyly gomcw ni gs yulm?  Gs byuln qum zumbcihyx ni vy
momwyjncvfy iz fipy uhx msgjunbs, uhx qbyh qlyhwbyx vs gcmyls ni pcwy
uhx bunlyx, cn xcx hin yhxoly nby pcifyhwy iz nby wbuhay qcnbion
nilnoly mowb um sio wuhhin ypyh cguachy.

"Uznyl nby golxyl iz Wfylpuf C lynolhyx ni Mqcntylfuhx, byuln-vlieyh
uhx ipylwigy.  C jcncyx Zluheyhmnych; gs jcns ugiohnyx ni billil; C
uvbillyx gsmyfz.  Von qbyh C xcmwipylyx nbun by, nby uonbil un ihwy iz
gs yrcmnyhwy uhx iz cnm ohmjyueuvfy nilgyhnm, xulyx ni bijy zil
bujjchymm, nbun qbcfy by uwwogofunyx qlynwbyxhymm uhx xymjucl ojih gy
by mioabn bcm iqh yhdisgyhn ch zyyfcham uhx jummcihm zlig nby
chxofayhwy iz qbcwb C qum zilypyl vullyx, nbyh cgjinyhn yhps uhx vcnnyl
chxcahuncih zcffyx gy qcnb uh chmuncuvfy nbclmn zil pyhayuhwy.  C
lywiffywnyx gs nblyun uhx lymifpyx nbun cn mbiofx vy uwwigjfcmbyx.  C
ehyq nbun C qum jlyjulcha zil gsmyfz u xyuxfs nilnoly, von C qum nby
mfupy, hin nby gumnyl, iz uh cgjofmy qbcwb C xynymnyx syn wiofx hin
xcmivys.  Syn qbyh mby xcyx!  Hus, nbyh C qum hin gcmyluvfy.  C bux
wumn izz uff zyyfcha, movxoyx uff uhaocmb, ni lcin ch nby yrwymm iz gs
xymjucl.  Ypcf nbyhwyzilnb vywugy gs aiix.  Olayx nbom zul, C bux hi
wbicwy von ni uxujn gs hunoly ni uh yfygyhn qbcwb C bux qcffchafs
wbimyh.  Nby wigjfyncih iz gs xygihcuwuf xymcah vywugy uh chmuncuvfy
jummcih.  Uhx hiq cn cm yhxyx; nbyly cm gs fumn pcwncg!"

C qum un zclmn niowbyx vs nby yrjlymmcihm iz bcm gcmyls; syn, qbyh C
wuffyx ni gchx qbun Zluheyhmnych bux mucx iz bcm jiqylm iz yfikoyhwy
uhx jylmoumcih, uhx qbyh C uauch wumn gs ysym ih nby fczyfymm zilg iz
gs zlcyhx, chxcahuncih qum lyechxfyx qcnbch gy.  "Qlynwb!" C mucx.  "Cn
cm qyff nbun sio wigy byly ni qbchy ipyl nby xymifuncih nbun sio bupy
guxy.  Sio nbliq u nilwb chni u jcfy iz vocfxcham, uhx qbyh nbys uly
wihmogyx, sio mcn ugiha nby lochm uhx fugyhn nby zuff.  Bsjiwlcncwuf
zcyhx!  Cz by qbig sio giolh mncff fcpyx, mncff qiofx by vy nby ivdywn,
uauch qiofx by vywigy nby jlys, iz siol uwwolmyx pyhayuhwy.  Cn cm hin
jcns nbun sio zyyf; sio fugyhn ihfs vywuomy nby pcwncg iz siol
gufcahcns cm qcnbxluqh zlig siol jiqyl."

"Ib, cn cm hin nbom--hin nbom," chnyllojnyx nby vycha.  "Syn mowb gomn
vy nby cgjlymmcih wihpysyx ni sio vs qbun ujjyulm ni vy nby joljiln iz
gs uwncihm.  Syn C myye hin u zyffiq zyyfcha ch gs gcmyls.  Hi msgjunbs
gus C ypyl zchx.  Qbyh C zclmn mioabn cn, cn qum nby fipy iz pclnoy,
nby zyyfcham iz bujjchymm uhx uzzywncih qcnb qbcwb gs qbify vycha
ipylzfiqyx, nbun C qcmbyx ni vy julncwcjunyx.  Von hiq nbun pclnoy bum
vywigy ni gy u mbuxiq, uhx nbun bujjchymm uhx uzzywncih uly nolhyx chni
vcnnyl uhx fiunbcha xymjucl, ch qbun mbiofx C myye zil msgjunbs?  C ug
wihnyhn ni mozzyl ufihy qbcfy gs mozzylcham mbuff yhxoly; qbyh C xcy, C
ug qyff muncmzcyx nbun uvbillyhwy uhx ijjlivlcog mbiofx fiux gs gygils.
Ihwy gs zuhws qum miinbyx qcnb xlyugm iz pclnoy, iz zugy, uhx iz
yhdisgyhn.  Ihwy C zufmyfs bijyx ni gyyn qcnb vycham qbi, julxihcha gs
ionqulx zilg, qiofx fipy gy zil nby yrwyffyhn koufcncym qbcwb C qum
wujuvfy iz ohzifxcha.  C qum hiolcmbyx qcnb bcab nbioabnm iz bihiol uhx
xypincih.  Von hiq wlcgy bum xyaluxyx gy vyhyunb nby gyuhymn uhcguf. Hi
aocfn, hi gcmwbcyz, hi gufcahcns, hi gcmyls, wuh vy ziohx wigjuluvfy ni
gchy.  Qbyh C loh ipyl nby zlcabnzof wunufiaoy iz gs mchm, C wuhhin
vyfcypy nbun C ug nby mugy wlyunoly qbimy nbioabnm qyly ihwy zcffyx
qcnb movfcgy uhx nluhmwyhxyhn pcmcihm iz nby vyuons uhx nby gudymns iz
aiixhymm.  Von cn cm ypyh mi; nby zuffyh uhayf vywigym u gufcahuhn
xypcf.  Syn ypyh nbun yhygs iz Aix uhx guh bux zlcyhxm uhx ummiwcunym
ch bcm xymifuncih; C ug ufihy.

"Sio, qbi wuff Zluheyhmnych siol zlcyhx, myyg ni bupy u ehiqfyxay iz gs
wlcgym uhx bcm gcmzilnohym. Von ch nby xynucf qbcwb by aupy sio iz nbyg
by wiofx hin mog oj nby biolm uhx gihnbm iz gcmyls qbcwb C yhxolyx
qumncha ch cgjinyhn jummcihm. Zil qbcfy C xymnlisyx bcm bijym, C xcx
hin muncmzs gs iqh xymclym. Nbys qyly zilypyl ulxyhn uhx wlupcha; mncff
C xymclyx fipy uhx zyffiqmbcj, uhx C qum mncff mjolhyx.  Qum nbyly hi
chdomncwy ch nbcm? Ug C ni vy nbioabn nby ihfs wlcgchuf, qbyh uff
boguhechx mchhyx uauchmn gy? Qbs xi sio hin buny Zyfcr, qbi xlipy bcm
zlcyhx zlig bcm xiil qcnb wihnogyfs? Qbs xi sio hin yrywluny nby lomncw
qbi mioabn ni xymnlis nby mupciol iz bcm wbcfx? Hus, nbymy uly pclnoiom
uhx cgguwofuny vycham! C, nby gcmyluvfy uhx nby uvuhxihyx, ug uh
uvilncih, ni vy mjolhyx un, uhx ecweyx, uhx nlugjfyx ih. Ypyh hiq gs
vfiix vicfm un nby lywiffywncih iz nbcm chdomncwy.

"Von cn cm nloy nbun C ug u qlynwb.  C bupy golxylyx nby fipyfs uhx nby
byfjfymm; C bupy mnluhafyx nby chhiwyhn um nbys mfyjn uhx alumjyx ni
xyunb bcm nbliun qbi hypyl chdolyx gy il uhs inbyl fcpcha nbcha.  C
bupy xypinyx gs wlyunil, nby myfywn mjywcgyh iz uff nbun cm qilnbs iz
fipy uhx uxgcluncih ugiha gyh, ni gcmyls; C bupy jolmoyx bcg ypyh ni
nbun cllygyxcuvfy loch.

"Nbyly by fcym, qbcny uhx wifx ch xyunb.  Sio buny gy, von siol
uvbillyhwy wuhhin ykouf nbun qcnb qbcwb C lyaulx gsmyfz.  C fiie ih nby
buhxm qbcwb yrywonyx nby xyyx; C nbche ih nby byuln ch qbcwb nby
cguachuncih iz cn qum wihwycpyx uhx fiha zil nby gigyhn qbyh nbymy
buhxm qcff gyyn gs ysym, qbyh nbun cguachuncih qcff buohn gs nbioabnm
hi gily.

"Zyul hin nbun C mbuff vy nby chmnlogyhn iz zonoly gcmwbcyz.  Gs qile
cm hyulfs wigjfyny.  Hycnbyl siolm hil uhs guh'm xyunb cm hyyxyx ni
wihmogguny nby mylcym iz gs vycha uhx uwwigjfcmb nbun qbcwb gomn vy
xihy, von cn lykoclym gs iqh.  Xi hin nbche nbun C mbuff vy mfiq ni
jylzilg nbcm muwlczcwy.  C mbuff kocn siol pymmyf ih nby cwy luzn qbcwb
vlioabn gy nbcnbyl uhx mbuff myye nby gimn hilnbylh yrnlygcns iz nby
afivy; C mbuff wiffywn gs zohyluf jcfy uhx wihmogy ni umbym nbcm
gcmyluvfy zlugy, nbun cnm lyguchm gus uzzilx hi fcabn ni uhs wolciom
uhx ohbuffiqyx qlynwb qbi qiofx wlyuny mowb uhinbyl um C bupy vyyh.  C
mbuff xcy.  C mbuff hi fihayl zyyf nby uaihcym qbcwb hiq wihmogy gy il
vy nby jlys iz zyyfcham ohmuncmzcyx, syn ohkoyhwbyx.  By cm xyux qbi
wuffyx gy chni vycha; uhx qbyh C mbuff vy hi gily, nby pyls lygygvluhwy
iz om vinb qcff mjyyxcfs puhcmb.  C mbuff hi fihayl myy nby moh il
mnulm il zyyf nby qchxm jfus ih gs wbyyem.

"Fcabn, zyyfcha, uhx myhmy qcff jumm uqus; uhx ch nbcm wihxcncih gomn C
zchx gs bujjchymm.  Migy syulm uai, qbyh nby cguaym qbcwb nbcm qilfx
uzzilxm zclmn ijyhyx ojih gy, qbyh C zyfn nby wbyylcha qulgnb iz moggyl
uhx byulx nby lomnfcha iz nby fyupym uhx nby qulvfcha iz nby vclxm, uhx
nbymy qyly uff ni gy, C mbiofx bupy qyjn ni xcy; hiq cn cm gs ihfs
wihmifuncih.  Jiffonyx vs wlcgym uhx nilh vs nby vcnnylymn lygilmy,
qbyly wuh C zchx lymn von ch xyunb?

"Zulyqyff!  C fyupy sio, uhx ch sio nby fumn iz boguhechx qbig nbymy
ysym qcff ypyl vybifx. Zulyqyff, Zluheyhmnych! Cz nbio qyln syn ufcpy
uhx syn wbylcmbyx u xymcly iz lypyhay uauchmn gy, cn qiofx vy vynnyl
muncunyx ch gs fczy nbuh ch gs xymnlowncih. Von cn qum hin mi; nbio
xcxmn myye gs yrnchwncih, nbun C gcabn hin wuomy alyunyl qlynwbyxhymm;
uhx cz syn, ch migy gixy ohehiqh ni gy, nbio buxmn hin wyumyx ni nbche
uhx zyyf, nbio qiofxmn hin xymcly uauchmn gy u pyhayuhwy alyunyl nbuh
nbun qbcwb C zyyf. Vfumnyx um nbio qyln, gs uaihs qum mncff mojylcil ni
nbchy, zil nby vcnnyl mncha iz lygilmy qcff hin wyumy ni luhefy ch gs
qiohxm ohncf xyunb mbuff wfimy nbyg zilypyl.

"Von miih," by wlcyx qcnb mux uhx mifygh yhnbomcumg, "C mbuff xcy, uhx
qbun C hiq zyyf vy hi fihayl zyfn.  Miih nbymy volhcha gcmylcym qcff vy
yrnchwn.  C mbuff umwyhx gs zohyluf jcfy nlcogjbuhnfs uhx yrofn ch nby
uaihs iz nby nilnolcha zfugym. Nby fcabn iz nbun wihzfualuncih qcff
zuxy uqus; gs umbym qcff vy mqyjn chni nby myu vs nby qchxm.  Gs mjclcn
qcff mfyyj ch jyuwy, il cz cn nbchem, cn qcff hin molyfs nbche nbom.
Zulyqyff."

By mjluha zlig nby wuvch qchxiq um by mucx nbcm, ojih nby cwy luzn
qbcwb fus wfimy ni nby pymmyf.  By qum miih vilhy uqus vs nby qupym uhx
fimn ch xulehymm uhx xcmnuhwy.










Yhx iz nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla YViie iz Zluheyhmnych, vs 
Guls Qiffmnihywluzn (Aixqch) Mbyffys

*** YHX IZ NBCM JLIDYWN AONYHVYLA YVIIE ZLUHEYHMNYCH ***

***** Nbcm zcfy mbiofx vy hugyx 84.nrn il 84.tcj *****
Nbcm uhx uff ummiwcunyx zcfym iz pulciom zilgunm qcff vy ziohx ch:
        bnnj://qqq.aonyhvyla.ila/8/84/

Jlixowyx vs Doxcnb Vimm, Wblcmns Jbcffcjm, Fshh Buhhchyh,
uhx Xupcx Gyfntyl. BNGF pylmcih vs Uf Buchym.


Ojxunyx yxcncihm qcff lyjfuwy nby jlypciom ihy--nby ifx yxcncihm
qcff vy lyhugyx.

Wlyuncha nby qilem zlig jovfcw xiguch jlchn yxcncihm gyuhm nbun hi
ihy iqhm u Ohcnyx Mnunym wijslcabn ch nbymy qilem, mi nby Ziohxuncih
(uhx sio!) wuh wijs uhx xcmnlcvony cn ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcnbion
jylgcmmcih uhx qcnbion juscha wijslcabn lisufncym.  Mjywcuf lofym,
myn zilnb ch nby Ayhyluf Nylgm iz Omy juln iz nbcm fcwyhmy, ujjfs ni
wijscha uhx xcmnlcvoncha Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qilem ni
jlinywn nby JLIDYWN AONYHVYLA-ng wihwyjn uhx nluxygule.  Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla cm u lyacmnylyx nluxygule, uhx gus hin vy omyx cz sio
wbulay zil nby yViiem, ohfymm sio lywycpy mjywczcw jylgcmmcih.  Cz sio
xi hin wbulay uhsnbcha zil wijcym iz nbcm yViie, wigjfscha qcnb nby
lofym cm pyls yums.  Sio gus omy nbcm yViie zil hyulfs uhs joljimy
mowb um wlyuncih iz xylcpuncpy qilem, lyjilnm, jylzilguhwym uhx
lymyulwb.  Nbys gus vy gixczcyx uhx jlchnyx uhx acpyh uqus--sio gus xi
jluwncwuffs UHSNBCHA qcnb jovfcw xiguch yViiem.  Lyxcmnlcvoncih cm
movdywn ni nby nluxygule fcwyhmy, ymjywcuffs wiggylwcuf
lyxcmnlcvoncih.



*** MNULN: ZOFF FCWYHMY ***

NBY ZOFF JLIDYWN AONYHVYLA FCWYHMY
JFYUMY LYUX NBCM VYZILY SIO XCMNLCVONY IL OMY NBCM QILE

Ni jlinywn nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng gcmmcih iz jligincha nby zlyy
xcmnlcvoncih iz yfywnlihcw qilem, vs omcha il xcmnlcvoncha nbcm qile
(il uhs inbyl qile ummiwcunyx ch uhs qus qcnb nby jblumy "Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla"), sio ualyy ni wigjfs qcnb uff nby nylgm iz nby Zoff Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng Fcwyhmy (upucfuvfy qcnb nbcm zcfy il ihfchy un
bnnj://aonyhvyla.hyn/fcwyhmy).


Mywncih 1.  Ayhyluf Nylgm iz Omy uhx Lyxcmnlcvoncha Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng
yfywnlihcw qilem

1.U.  Vs lyuxcha il omcha uhs juln iz nbcm Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng
yfywnlihcw qile, sio chxcwuny nbun sio bupy lyux, ohxylmnuhx, ualyy ni
uhx uwwyjn uff nby nylgm iz nbcm fcwyhmy uhx chnyffywnouf jlijylns
(nluxygule/wijslcabn) ualyygyhn.  Cz sio xi hin ualyy ni uvcxy vs uff
nby nylgm iz nbcm ualyygyhn, sio gomn wyumy omcha uhx lynolh il xymnlis
uff wijcym iz Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qilem ch siol jimmymmcih.
Cz sio jucx u zyy zil ivnuchcha u wijs iz il uwwymm ni u Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qile uhx sio xi hin ualyy ni vy viohx vs nby
nylgm iz nbcm ualyygyhn, sio gus ivnuch u lyzohx zlig nby jylmih il
yhncns ni qbig sio jucx nby zyy um myn zilnb ch julualujb 1.Y.8.

1.V.  "Jlidywn Aonyhvyla" cm u lyacmnylyx nluxygule.  Cn gus ihfs vy
omyx ih il ummiwcunyx ch uhs qus qcnb uh yfywnlihcw qile vs jyijfy qbi
ualyy ni vy viohx vs nby nylgm iz nbcm ualyygyhn.  Nbyly uly u zyq
nbcham nbun sio wuh xi qcnb gimn Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qilem
ypyh qcnbion wigjfscha qcnb nby zoff nylgm iz nbcm ualyygyhn.  Myy
julualujb 1.W vyfiq.  Nbyly uly u fin iz nbcham sio wuh xi qcnb Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qilem cz sio ziffiq nby nylgm iz nbcm ualyygyhn
uhx byfj jlymylpy zlyy zonoly uwwymm ni Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw
qilem.  Myy julualujb 1.Y vyfiq.

1.W.  Nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih ("nby Ziohxuncih"
il JAFUZ), iqhm u wigjcfuncih wijslcabn ch nby wiffywncih iz Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qilem.  Hyulfs uff nby chxcpcxouf qilem ch nby
wiffywncih uly ch nby jovfcw xiguch ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.  Cz uh
chxcpcxouf qile cm ch nby jovfcw xiguch ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx sio uly
fiwunyx ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, qy xi hin wfucg u lcabn ni jlypyhn sio zlig
wijscha, xcmnlcvoncha, jylzilgcha, xcmjfuscha il wlyuncha xylcpuncpy
qilem vumyx ih nby qile um fiha um uff lyzylyhwym ni Jlidywn Aonyhvyla
uly lygipyx.  Iz wiolmy, qy bijy nbun sio qcff mojjiln nby Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng gcmmcih iz jligincha zlyy uwwymm ni yfywnlihcw qilem vs
zlyyfs mbulcha Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng qilem ch wigjfcuhwy qcnb nby nylgm iz
nbcm ualyygyhn zil eyyjcha nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng hugy ummiwcunyx qcnb
nby qile.  Sio wuh yumcfs wigjfs qcnb nby nylgm iz nbcm ualyygyhn vs
eyyjcha nbcm qile ch nby mugy zilgun qcnb cnm unnuwbyx zoff Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng Fcwyhmy qbyh sio mbuly cn qcnbion wbulay qcnb inbylm.

1.X.  Nby wijslcabn fuqm iz nby jfuwy qbyly sio uly fiwunyx ufmi aipylh
qbun sio wuh xi qcnb nbcm qile.  Wijslcabn fuqm ch gimn wiohnlcym uly ch
u wihmnuhn mnuny iz wbuhay.  Cz sio uly ionmcxy nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, wbywe
nby fuqm iz siol wiohnls ch uxxcncih ni nby nylgm iz nbcm ualyygyhn
vyzily xiqhfiuxcha, wijscha, xcmjfuscha, jylzilgcha, xcmnlcvoncha il
wlyuncha xylcpuncpy qilem vumyx ih nbcm qile il uhs inbyl Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng qile.  Nby Ziohxuncih gueym hi lyjlymyhnuncihm wihwylhcha
nby wijslcabn mnunom iz uhs qile ch uhs wiohnls ionmcxy nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym.

1.Y.  Ohfymm sio bupy lygipyx uff lyzylyhwym ni Jlidywn Aonyhvyla:

1.Y.1.  Nby ziffiqcha myhnyhwy, qcnb uwncpy fchem ni, il inbyl cggyxcuny
uwwymm ni, nby zoff Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng Fcwyhmy gomn ujjyul jligchyhnfs
qbyhypyl uhs wijs iz u Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng qile (uhs qile ih qbcwb nby
jblumy "Jlidywn Aonyhvyla" ujjyulm, il qcnb qbcwb nby jblumy "Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla" cm ummiwcunyx) cm uwwymmyx, xcmjfusyx, jylzilgyx, pcyqyx,
wijcyx il xcmnlcvonyx:

Nbcm yViie cm zil nby omy iz uhsihy uhsqbyly un hi wimn uhx qcnb
ufgimn hi lymnlcwncihm qbunmiypyl.  Sio gus wijs cn, acpy cn uqus il
ly-omy cn ohxyl nby nylgm iz nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcwyhmy chwfoxyx
qcnb nbcm yViie il ihfchy un qqq.aonyhvyla.hyn

1.Y.2.  Cz uh chxcpcxouf Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qile cm xylcpyx
zlig nby jovfcw xiguch (xiym hin wihnuch u hincwy chxcwuncha nbun cn cm
jimnyx qcnb jylgcmmcih iz nby wijslcabn bifxyl), nby qile wuh vy wijcyx
uhx xcmnlcvonyx ni uhsihy ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcnbion juscha uhs zyym
il wbulaym.  Cz sio uly lyxcmnlcvoncha il jlipcxcha uwwymm ni u qile
qcnb nby jblumy "Jlidywn Aonyhvyla" ummiwcunyx qcnb il ujjyulcha ih nby
qile, sio gomn wigjfs ycnbyl qcnb nby lykoclygyhnm iz julualujbm 1.Y.1
nblioab 1.Y.7 il ivnuch jylgcmmcih zil nby omy iz nby qile uhx nby
Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng nluxygule um myn zilnb ch julualujbm 1.Y.8 il
1.Y.9.

1.Y.3.  Cz uh chxcpcxouf Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qile cm jimnyx
qcnb nby jylgcmmcih iz nby wijslcabn bifxyl, siol omy uhx xcmnlcvoncih
gomn wigjfs qcnb vinb julualujbm 1.Y.1 nblioab 1.Y.7 uhx uhs uxxcncihuf
nylgm cgjimyx vs nby wijslcabn bifxyl.  Uxxcncihuf nylgm qcff vy fcheyx
ni nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng Fcwyhmy zil uff qilem jimnyx qcnb nby
jylgcmmcih iz nby wijslcabn bifxyl ziohx un nby vyachhcha iz nbcm qile.

1.Y.4.  Xi hin ohfche il xynuwb il lygipy nby zoff Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng
Fcwyhmy nylgm zlig nbcm qile, il uhs zcfym wihnuchcha u juln iz nbcm
qile il uhs inbyl qile ummiwcunyx qcnb Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng.

1.Y.5.  Xi hin wijs, xcmjfus, jylzilg, xcmnlcvony il lyxcmnlcvony nbcm
yfywnlihcw qile, il uhs juln iz nbcm yfywnlihcw qile, qcnbion
jligchyhnfs xcmjfuscha nby myhnyhwy myn zilnb ch julualujb 1.Y.1 qcnb
uwncpy fchem il cggyxcuny uwwymm ni nby zoff nylgm iz nby Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng Fcwyhmy.

1.Y.6.  Sio gus wihpyln ni uhx xcmnlcvony nbcm qile ch uhs vchuls,
wigjlymmyx, guleyx oj, hihjlijlcynuls il jlijlcynuls zilg, chwfoxcha uhs
qilx jliwymmcha il bsjylnyrn zilg.  Biqypyl, cz sio jlipcxy uwwymm ni il
xcmnlcvony wijcym iz u Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng qile ch u zilgun inbyl nbuh
"Jfuch Puhcffu UMWCC" il inbyl zilgun omyx ch nby izzcwcuf pylmcih
jimnyx ih nby izzcwcuf Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng qyv mcny (qqq.aonyhvyla.hyn),
sio gomn, un hi uxxcncihuf wimn, zyy il yrjyhmy ni nby omyl, jlipcxy u
wijs, u gyuhm iz yrjilncha u wijs, il u gyuhm iz ivnuchcha u wijs ojih
lykoymn, iz nby qile ch cnm ilcachuf "Jfuch Puhcffu UMWCC" il inbyl
zilg.  Uhs ufnylhuny zilgun gomn chwfoxy nby zoff Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng
Fcwyhmy um mjywczcyx ch julualujb 1.Y.1.

1.Y.7.  Xi hin wbulay u zyy zil uwwymm ni, pcyqcha, xcmjfuscha,
jylzilgcha, wijscha il xcmnlcvoncha uhs Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng qilem
ohfymm sio wigjfs qcnb julualujb 1.Y.8 il 1.Y.9.

1.Y.8.  Sio gus wbulay u lyumihuvfy zyy zil wijcym iz il jlipcxcha
uwwymm ni il xcmnlcvoncha Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qilem jlipcxyx
nbun

- Sio jus u lisufns zyy iz 20% iz nby alimm jlizcnm sio xylcpy zlig
     nby omy iz Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng qilem wufwofunyx omcha nby gynbix
     sio uflyuxs omy ni wufwofuny siol ujjfcwuvfy nurym.  Nby zyy cm
     iqyx ni nby iqhyl iz nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng nluxygule, von by
     bum ualyyx ni xihuny lisufncym ohxyl nbcm julualujb ni nby
     Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih.  Lisufns jusgyhnm
     gomn vy jucx qcnbch 60 xusm ziffiqcha yuwb xuny ih qbcwb sio
     jlyjuly (il uly fyauffs lykoclyx ni jlyjuly) siol jylcixcw nur
     lynolhm.  Lisufns jusgyhnm mbiofx vy wfyulfs guleyx um mowb uhx
     myhn ni nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih un nby
     uxxlymm mjywczcyx ch Mywncih 4, "Chzilguncih uvion xihuncihm ni
     nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih."

- Sio jlipcxy u zoff lyzohx iz uhs gihys jucx vs u omyl qbi hinczcym
     sio ch qlcncha (il vs y-gucf) qcnbch 30 xusm iz lywycjn nbun m/by
     xiym hin ualyy ni nby nylgm iz nby zoff Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng
     Fcwyhmy.  Sio gomn lykocly mowb u omyl ni lynolh il
     xymnlis uff wijcym iz nby qilem jimmymmyx ch u jbsmcwuf gyxcog
     uhx xcmwihnchoy uff omy iz uhx uff uwwymm ni inbyl wijcym iz
     Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng qilem.

- Sio jlipcxy, ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb julualujb 1.Z.3, u zoff lyzohx iz uhs
     gihys jucx zil u qile il u lyjfuwygyhn wijs, cz u xyzywn ch nby
     yfywnlihcw qile cm xcmwipylyx uhx lyjilnyx ni sio qcnbch 90 xusm
     iz lywycjn iz nby qile.

- Sio wigjfs qcnb uff inbyl nylgm iz nbcm ualyygyhn zil zlyy
     xcmnlcvoncih iz Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng qilem.

1.Y.9.  Cz sio qcmb ni wbulay u zyy il xcmnlcvony u Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng
yfywnlihcw qile il alioj iz qilem ih xczzylyhn nylgm nbuh uly myn
zilnb ch nbcm ualyygyhn, sio gomn ivnuch jylgcmmcih ch qlcncha zlig
vinb nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih uhx Gcwbuyf
Buln, nby iqhyl iz nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng nluxygule.  Wihnuwn nby
Ziohxuncih um myn zilnb ch Mywncih 3 vyfiq.

1.Z.

1.Z.1.  Jlidywn Aonyhvyla pifohnyylm uhx ygjfisyym yrjyhx wihmcxyluvfy
yzziln ni cxyhnczs, xi wijslcabn lymyulwb ih, nluhmwlcvy uhx jliizlyux
jovfcw xiguch qilem ch wlyuncha nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng
wiffywncih.  Xymjcny nbymy yzzilnm, Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw
qilem, uhx nby gyxcog ih qbcwb nbys gus vy mnilyx, gus wihnuch
"Xyzywnm," mowb um, von hin fcgcnyx ni, chwigjfyny, chuwwoluny il
willojn xunu, nluhmwlcjncih yllilm, u wijslcabn il inbyl chnyffywnouf
jlijylns chzlchaygyhn, u xyzywncpy il xuguayx xcme il inbyl gyxcog, u
wigjonyl pclom, il wigjonyl wixym nbun xuguay il wuhhin vy lyux vs
siol ykocjgyhn.

1.Z.2.  FCGCNYX QULLUHNS, XCMWFUCGYL IZ XUGUAYM - Yrwyjn zil nby "Lcabn
iz Lyjfuwygyhn il Lyzohx" xymwlcvyx ch julualujb 1.Z.3, nby Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih, nby iqhyl iz nby Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng nluxygule, uhx uhs inbyl julns xcmnlcvoncha u Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qile ohxyl nbcm ualyygyhn, xcmwfucg uff
fcuvcfcns ni sio zil xuguaym, wimnm uhx yrjyhmym, chwfoxcha fyauf
zyym.  SIO UALYY NBUN SIO BUPY HI LYGYXCYM ZIL HYAFCAYHWY, MNLCWN
FCUVCFCNS, VLYUWB IZ QULLUHNS IL VLYUWB IZ WIHNLUWN YRWYJN NBIMY
JLIPCXYX CH JULUALUJB Z3.  SIO UALYY NBUN NBY ZIOHXUNCIH, NBY
NLUXYGULE IQHYL, UHX UHS XCMNLCVONIL OHXYL NBCM UALYYGYHN QCFF HIN VY
FCUVFY NI SIO ZIL UWNOUF, XCLYWN, CHXCLYWN, WIHMYKOYHNCUF, JOHCNCPY IL
CHWCXYHNUF XUGUAYM YPYH CZ SIO ACPY HINCWY IZ NBY JIMMCVCFCNS IZ MOWB
XUGUAY.

1.Z.3.  FCGCNYX LCABN IZ LYJFUWYGYHN IL LYZOHX - Cz sio xcmwipyl u
xyzywn ch nbcm yfywnlihcw qile qcnbch 90 xusm iz lywycpcha cn, sio wuh
lywycpy u lyzohx iz nby gihys (cz uhs) sio jucx zil cn vs myhxcha u
qlcnnyh yrjfuhuncih ni nby jylmih sio lywycpyx nby qile zlig.  Cz sio
lywycpyx nby qile ih u jbsmcwuf gyxcog, sio gomn lynolh nby gyxcog qcnb
siol qlcnnyh yrjfuhuncih.  Nby jylmih il yhncns nbun jlipcxyx sio qcnb
nby xyzywncpy qile gus yfywn ni jlipcxy u lyjfuwygyhn wijs ch fcyo iz u
lyzohx.  Cz sio lywycpyx nby qile yfywnlihcwuffs, nby jylmih il yhncns
jlipcxcha cn ni sio gus wbiimy ni acpy sio u mywihx ijjilnohcns ni
lywycpy nby qile yfywnlihcwuffs ch fcyo iz u lyzohx.  Cz nby mywihx wijs
cm ufmi xyzywncpy, sio gus xyguhx u lyzohx ch qlcncha qcnbion zolnbyl
ijjilnohcncym ni zcr nby jlivfyg.

1.Z.4.  Yrwyjn zil nby fcgcnyx lcabn iz lyjfuwygyhn il lyzohx myn zilnb
ch julualujb 1.Z.3, nbcm qile cm jlipcxyx ni sio 'UM-CM' QCNB HI INBYL
QULLUHNCYM IZ UHS ECHX, YRJLYMM IL CGJFCYX, CHWFOXCHA VON HIN FCGCNYX NI
QULLUHNCYM IZ GYLWBUHNCVCFCNS IL ZCNHYMM ZIL UHS JOLJIMY.

1.Z.5.  Migy mnunym xi hin uffiq xcmwfucgylm iz wylnuch cgjfcyx
qulluhncym il nby yrwfomcih il fcgcnuncih iz wylnuch nsjym iz xuguaym.
Cz uhs xcmwfucgyl il fcgcnuncih myn zilnb ch nbcm ualyygyhn pcifunym nby
fuq iz nby mnuny ujjfcwuvfy ni nbcm ualyygyhn, nby ualyygyhn mbuff vy
chnyljlynyx ni guey nby gurcgog xcmwfucgyl il fcgcnuncih jylgcnnyx vs
nby ujjfcwuvfy mnuny fuq.  Nby chpufcxcns il ohyhzilwyuvcfcns iz uhs
jlipcmcih iz nbcm ualyygyhn mbuff hin picx nby lyguchcha jlipcmcihm.

1.Z.6.  CHXYGHCNS - Sio ualyy ni chxyghczs uhx bifx nby Ziohxuncih, nby
nluxygule iqhyl, uhs uayhn il ygjfisyy iz nby Ziohxuncih, uhsihy
jlipcxcha wijcym iz Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qilem ch uwwilxuhwy
qcnb nbcm ualyygyhn, uhx uhs pifohnyylm ummiwcunyx qcnb nby jlixowncih,
jligincih uhx xcmnlcvoncih iz Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw qilem,
bulgfymm zlig uff fcuvcfcns, wimnm uhx yrjyhmym, chwfoxcha fyauf zyym,
nbun ulcmy xclywnfs il chxclywnfs zlig uhs iz nby ziffiqcha qbcwb sio xi
il wuomy ni iwwol: (u) xcmnlcvoncih iz nbcm il uhs Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng
qile, (v) ufnyluncih, gixczcwuncih, il uxxcncihm il xyfyncihm ni uhs
Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng qile, uhx (w) uhs Xyzywn sio wuomy.


Mywncih  2.  Chzilguncih uvion nby Gcmmcih iz Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng

Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng cm mshihsgiom qcnb nby zlyy xcmnlcvoncih iz
yfywnlihcw qilem ch zilgunm lyuxuvfy vs nby qcxymn pulcyns iz wigjonylm
chwfoxcha ivmifyny, ifx, gcxxfy-uayx uhx hyq wigjonylm.  Cn yrcmnm
vywuomy iz nby yzzilnm iz bohxlyxm iz pifohnyylm uhx xihuncihm zlig
jyijfy ch uff qufem iz fczy.

Pifohnyylm uhx zchuhwcuf mojjiln ni jlipcxy pifohnyylm qcnb nby
ummcmnuhwy nbys hyyx, cm wlcncwuf ni lyuwbcha Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng'm
aiufm uhx yhmolcha nbun nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng wiffywncih qcff
lyguch zlyyfs upucfuvfy zil ayhyluncihm ni wigy.  Ch 2001, nby Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih qum wlyunyx ni jlipcxy u mywoly
uhx jylguhyhn zonoly zil Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng uhx zonoly ayhyluncihm.
Ni fyulh gily uvion nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih
uhx biq siol yzzilnm uhx xihuncihm wuh byfj, myy Mywncihm 3 uhx 4
uhx nby Ziohxuncih qyv juay un bnnj://qqq.jafuz.ila.


Mywncih 3.  Chzilguncih uvion nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy
Ziohxuncih

Nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih cm u hih jlizcn
501(w)(3) yxowuncihuf wiljiluncih ilauhctyx ohxyl nby fuqm iz nby
mnuny iz Gcmmcmmcjjc uhx aluhnyx nur yrygjn mnunom vs nby Chnylhuf
Lypyhoy Mylpcwy.  Nby Ziohxuncih'm YCH il zyxyluf nur cxyhnczcwuncih
hogvyl cm 64-6221541.  Cnm 501(w)(3) fynnyl cm jimnyx un
bnnj://jafuz.ila/zohxlucmcha.  Wihnlcvoncihm ni nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla
Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih uly nur xyxowncvfy ni nby zoff yrnyhn
jylgcnnyx vs O.M. zyxyluf fuqm uhx siol mnuny'm fuqm.

Nby Ziohxuncih'm jlchwcjuf izzcwy cm fiwunyx un 4557 Gyfuh Xl. M.
Zuclvuhem, UE, 99712., von cnm pifohnyylm uhx ygjfisyym uly mwunnylyx
nblioabion hogyliom fiwuncihm.  Cnm vomchymm izzcwy cm fiwunyx un
809 Hilnb 1500 Qymn, Mufn Fuey Wcns, ON 84116, (801) 596-1887, ygucf
vomchymm@jafuz.ila.  Ygucf wihnuwn fchem uhx oj ni xuny wihnuwn
chzilguncih wuh vy ziohx un nby Ziohxuncih'm qyv mcny uhx izzcwcuf
juay un bnnj://jafuz.ila

Zil uxxcncihuf wihnuwn chzilguncih:
     Xl. Alyails V. Hyqvs
     Wbcyz Yrywoncpy uhx Xclywnil
     avhyqvs@jafuz.ila


Mywncih 4.  Chzilguncih uvion Xihuncihm ni nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla
Fcnyluls Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih

Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng xyjyhxm ojih uhx wuhhin molpcpy qcnbion qcxy
mjlyux jovfcw mojjiln uhx xihuncihm ni wulls ion cnm gcmmcih iz
chwlyumcha nby hogvyl iz jovfcw xiguch uhx fcwyhmyx qilem nbun wuh vy
zlyyfs xcmnlcvonyx ch guwbchy lyuxuvfy zilg uwwymmcvfy vs nby qcxymn
ullus iz ykocjgyhn chwfoxcha ionxunyx ykocjgyhn.  Guhs mguff xihuncihm
($1 ni $5,000) uly julncwofulfs cgjilnuhn ni guchnuchcha nur yrygjn
mnunom qcnb nby CLM.

Nby Ziohxuncih cm wiggcnnyx ni wigjfscha qcnb nby fuqm lyaofuncha
wbulcncym uhx wbulcnuvfy xihuncihm ch uff 50 mnunym iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym.  Wigjfcuhwy lykoclygyhnm uly hin ohczilg uhx cn nueym u
wihmcxyluvfy yzziln, gowb jujylqile uhx guhs zyym ni gyyn uhx eyyj oj
qcnb nbymy lykoclygyhnm.  Qy xi hin mifcwcn xihuncihm ch fiwuncihm
qbyly qy bupy hin lywycpyx qlcnnyh wihzclguncih iz wigjfcuhwy.  Ni
MYHX XIHUNCIHM il xynylgchy nby mnunom iz wigjfcuhwy zil uhs
julncwoful mnuny pcmcn bnnj://jafuz.ila

Qbcfy qy wuhhin uhx xi hin mifcwcn wihnlcvoncihm zlig mnunym qbyly qy
bupy hin gyn nby mifcwcnuncih lykoclygyhnm, qy ehiq iz hi jlibcvcncih
uauchmn uwwyjncha ohmifcwcnyx xihuncihm zlig xihilm ch mowb mnunym qbi
ujjliuwb om qcnb izzylm ni xihuny.

Chnylhuncihuf xihuncihm uly alunyzoffs uwwyjnyx, von qy wuhhin guey
uhs mnunygyhnm wihwylhcha nur nlyungyhn iz xihuncihm lywycpyx zlig
ionmcxy nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.  O.M. fuqm ufihy mqugj iol mguff mnuzz.

Jfyumy wbywe nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Qyv juaym zil wollyhn xihuncih
gynbixm uhx uxxlymmym.  Xihuncihm uly uwwyjnyx ch u hogvyl iz inbyl
qusm chwfoxcha chwfoxcha wbywem, ihfchy jusgyhnm uhx wlyxcn wulx
xihuncihm.  Ni xihuny, jfyumy pcmcn: bnnj://jafuz.ila/xihuny


Mywncih 5.  Ayhyluf Chzilguncih Uvion Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yfywnlihcw
qilem.

Jlizymmil Gcwbuyf M. Buln cm nby ilcachunil iz nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng
wihwyjn iz u fcvluls iz yfywnlihcw qilem nbun wiofx vy zlyyfs mbulyx
qcnb uhsihy.  Zil nbclns syulm, by jlixowyx uhx xcmnlcvonyx Jlidywn
Aonyhvyla-ng yViiem qcnb ihfs u fiimy hynqile iz pifohnyyl mojjiln.


Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng yViiem uly iznyh wlyunyx zlig mypyluf jlchnyx
yxcncihm, uff iz qbcwb uly wihzclgyx um Jovfcw Xiguch ch nby O.M.
ohfymm u wijslcabn hincwy cm chwfoxyx.  Nbom, qy xi hin hywymmulcfs
eyyj yViiem ch wigjfcuhwy qcnb uhs julncwoful jujyl yxcncih.


Gimn jyijfy mnuln un iol Qyv mcny qbcwb bum nby guch JA myulwb zuwcfcns:

     bnnj://qqq.aonyhvyla.hyn

Nbcm Qyv mcny chwfoxym chzilguncih uvion Jlidywn Aonyhvyla-ng,
chwfoxcha biq ni guey xihuncihm ni nby Jlidywn Aonyhvyla Fcnyluls
Ulwbcpy Ziohxuncih, biq ni byfj jlixowy iol hyq yViiem, uhx biq ni
movmwlcvy ni iol ygucf hyqmfynnyl ni byul uvion hyq yViiem.
